  With iOS 11.3, Apple has silently added support for the basic set of new technologies behind the idea of “Progressive Web Apps” (PWAs). It’s time to see how they work, what are their abilities and challenges, and what do you need to know if you already have a published PWA.  
    If you came here and you still don’t know what a PWA is, let’s start saying there is no unique or precise definition. But it’s an app created with Web technologies that −without packaging or signing− can work offline and can optionally be installed in the operating system where it will look and act like any other app.  
    (Ad: I will be teaching Mastering PWA training, after WWDC, same venue)  
    There is no App Store process involved in most platforms−only Edge/Windows 10 is currently forcing PWAs to be in the store.  
    So you are right, you can now install apps on iOS without App Store approval. That’s probably one reason Apple didn’t mention at all about this new ability; they might not want to confuse users. Not even the release notes on Safari mention the technologies.  
    Let’s be honest here; while Google with the Chrome team coined the term PWA, the idea was initially available on Safari at the original iPhone OS. In 2007, Steve Jobs announced “one more thing” in the WWDC: how to develop apps for the original iPhone and it was, surprise, web apps! The App Store was not on the original roadmap, and the native SDK wasn’t available during the first year of the device. From an Apple’s perspective PWAs even today are just “web apps from the home screen,” and the icon is something referred as a WebClip.  
    If you want, check the Fluent Conference keynote I delivered last year; I mentioned this for one minute at 10:50  
    It’s also true that the idea didn’t get too much attention 11 years ago and Apple forgot to update that platform, so while still there for 10+ years it was buggy and inconsistent. A few years later other platforms cloned the idea including the MeeGo Browser on Nokia N9 and then Chrome on Android.  
    Chrome helped to evolve the technologies to offer a better experience, mostly with Service Workers and Web App Manifest specs. Starting from iOS 11.3 today (March, 30th 2018) Apple is matching Chrome, Firefox, Samsung Internet, UC Browser and Opera (mostly on Android only) supporting these two specs. Other browsers on desktop support Service Workers but Web App Manifest support is in the works for this year.  
    Yes, that’s correct. However, the app will run only under the browser’s or the Web Platform security and execution model. That means you can “publish” apps that are not approved in the store, such as an internal app for your company’s employees (and yes, also adult content), but you can’t access pure native features, such as Face ID on iPhone X or ARKit for augmented reality. Or at least, you need to wait for the Web Platform to catch those new features.  
    The PWA can run inside Safari as any website or in standalone mode, like any other app in the system. If you are wondering if PWAs are using the Web View, that’s not the case from Safari or the installed icon, but it will be the case while browsing in other browsers or within Facebook with its In-App browser.  
    With the Web Platform on iOS you can access:  
    That’s one of the most significant challenges on iOS as there will be no prompts or invitations from Safari (known as Web App Banners on Android). So the user has to go to your PWA URL somehow within Safari and then manually press the Share icon and then “Add to Home Screen.” There will be no indication that a website you are visiting is a PWA.  
    Also, additional pseudo-browsers available in the App Store, such as Chrome, Firefox, Brave or Edge won’t be able to install a PWA or use Service Workers.  
    Once it’s installed, it will look like any other icon on the home screen. There will be no 3D Touch menu for it though. And if you install the same PWA again, you will have another icon pointing to the same PWA (fortunately, the installed files will be shared).  
    Also, a lot of web apps have a link to install the native app from the App Store, and that is still showing even inside the PWA, such as the Tinder example:  
    Your PWA will be available for installation right away after your users update to iOS 11.3. You don’t need to opt-in for iOS. Every PWA is available for installation. But that doesn’t mean that everything will work as expected.  
    If you are reading this you may have already seen my previous article while in beta: Cupertino we have a problem. Unfortunately, most of the bugs and challenges I’ve been during betas are still here with us in the final version ?  
    Did you find any bug in your PWA on iOS? Drop me a line in the comments and I will post it here or fill a bug report to the WebKit team. Follow me on Twitter at @firt if you want to get updates on the article. And if you are in the Bay area in June, check the hands-on PWA training I’ll be teaching; we’ll be creating a PWA covering what most people are missing about them on every platform, including how to survive to iOS ?  
    Maximiliano Firtman is a mobile + web developer, trainer, speaker, and writer. He has authored many books, including High Performance Mobile Web published by O’Reilly Media. He is a frequent speaker at conferences worldwide and he has been widely recognized for his work in the mobile-web community. He teaches mobile, HTML5, PWA and performance trainings for top companies around the world. He has delivered several Progressive Web Apps workshops and trainings at many companies and at online publishers, such as Linked Learning/Lynda and Safari for O’Reilly. Twitter: @firt  
    By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.  
    mobile+web developer, author, trainer, speaker  
    
  URL : https://medium.com/@firt/progressive-web-apps-on-ios-are-here-d00430dee3a7?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website