  
        Everything you need to get started      
    
        Learn how to master marketing      
    
        See how other brands do it      
    
        Get step-by-step help with Mailchimp      
    
					Compare how your emails are doing with the average unique open, click, bounce, and abuse complaint rates for thousands of Mailchimp users.

				  
    There are a lot of numbers in Mailchimp’s free reports on email and marketing automation, but you might be wondering how your stats compare to others in the same industry. What kind of open rates should companies like yours expect? How many bounces are too many? What’s an acceptable abuse complaint rate? The more context, the better.  
    Mailchimp sends billions of emails a month for millions of users. Needless to say, we track a lot of data. So we scanned hundreds of millions of emails delivered by our system (where campaign tracking was activated, and where users reported their industry) and calculated the average unique open rates, click rates, soft bounces, hard bounces, and abuse complaint rate by industry.  
    We only tracked campaigns that went to at least 1,000 subscribers, but these stats aren’t pulled from a survey of giant corporations with million-dollar marketing budgets and dedicated email-marketing teams. Our customers range from 1-person startups to Fortune 500 companies, so the whole spectrum is represented in this data. Here’s your apples-to-apples comparison with others in your industry.  
    Updated March 2018  
    Open rates are one of the best ways to tell whether your email strategy is working. This number shows what percentage of your audience opens the emails you send them. If you have a great open rate, it usually means your subject lines resonate with your audience.  
    Here are a few examples of successful open rates:  
    Another good way to check how well your emails are working is to take a look at the click rates. The click rate is a percentage that tells you how many successfully delivered emails got at least 1 click. This number shows whether or not your audience finds the emails you send relevant enough to click through for more.  
    Here’s what standard click rates look like:  
    What’s the average unique open rate for email-marketing campaigns? What kind of click rates are other people in your industry getting? How many bounces are normal? How many spam complaints are too many? These are the kinds of questions you should be asking as an email marketer.  
    Mailchimp scanned hundreds of millions of email campaigns to get the stats. Here’s what we learned.  
    But good things do come with growth. In this case, the abuse and unsubscribe rates are lower on emails sent by companies with 26 or more employees. As you can see, the size of your company doesn’t typically make a difference on open rate or click rate. This should be especially encouraging to small teams—you can send emails that are just as successful as those sent by bigger operations.  
    Tips for Improving Your Stats  
    Abuse complaints happen when recipients click the “This is spam” button in their email programs. That usually means they don’t remember you. Make sure your “From” and “Subject” lines contain your company name, so your subscribers will instantly recognize you. Here are a few more tips for preventing spam complaints.  
    ©2001-2018 All Rights Reserved. Mailchimp® is a registered trademark of The Rocket Science Group. Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Mac App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of Google Inc. Privacy & Terms  
    
  URL : https://mailchimp.com/resources/email-marketing-benchmarks/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website