  Every six months I rethink the optimal startup go to market approach based on new insights gained at recent startups. Lately I’ve been using a pyramid to represent the process I’m using. Startups require a solid foundation of product/market fit before progressing up the pyramid and scaling the business.  
      
    Achieving Product/Market Fit  
    Product/market fit has always been a fairly abstract concept making it difficult to know when you have actually achieved it. Yet many entrepreneurs have highlighted the importance of creating a product that resonates with the target market:  
    I’ve tried to make the concept less abstract by offering a specific metric for determining product/market fit. I ask existing users of a product how they would feel if they could no longer use the product. In my experience, achieving product/market fit requires at least 40% of users saying they would be “very disappointed” without your product. Admittedly this threshold is a bit arbitrary, but I defined it after comparing results across nearly 100 startups. Those that struggle for traction are always under 40%, while most that gain strong traction exceed 40%. Of course progressing beyond “early traction” requires that these users represent a large enough target market to build an interesting business.  
    You should measure your product/market fit as soon as possible because it will significantly impact how you operate your startup. If you haven’t reached product/market fit yet it is critical to keep your burn low and focus all resources on improving the percentage of users that say they would be very disappointed without your product. Avoid bringing in VPs of Marketing and Sales to try to solve the problem. They will only add to your burn and likely won’t be any better than you at solving the problem. Instead, you (the founders) should engage existing and target users to learn how to make your product a “must have.” Sometimes it is as simple as highlighting a more compelling attribute of your product – but often it requires significant product revisions or possibly even hitting the restart button on your vision. For more on getting to product/market fit, I recommend reading Marc Andreessen’s full post via archive.org (it has been removed from his blog).  
    Race up the Pyramid  
    Once you have achieved product/market fit, it’s time to accelerate through the next steps of the pyramid and then begin scaling your business. Here’s a brief description of what to do at each of the steps before scaling:  
    Effectively executing these pre-scale steps often improves the conversion rate to transactions by 5X or more. This directly boosts the effectiveness of every future marketing initiative by the same proportion. Just don’t rush into this fine-tuning phase until you have first achieved product/market fit.  
    I recommend reading this post on Milestones to Startup Success for additional details.  
    Pingback: 10 Business Mistakes That Will Nearly Break You… Literally  
    Pingback: Store That Landing Page « Grockit Blog  
    Pingback: How to design your Business Model as a Lean Startup? « Methodologist  
    Pingback: First Bitesize of 2010 : Venture Capital Cafe  
    Pingback: Product/Market fit and Market/Product fit | Rocket Watcher by April Dunford  
    Pingback: KISSmetrics vs. Google Analytics  
    Pingback: Bootstrap Your Sales Funnel: An SEO Primer « SagePoint Software  
    Pingback: A key lesson for startup ideas: look for disconfirming evidence – Rypple  
    Pingback: Jeff Magnusson » Agile Budgeting – Followup  
    Pingback: Think goals, not functions — giffconstable.com  
    Pingback: Babson Entrepreneurs » Blog Archive » Product Market Fit  
    Pingback: Quora  
    Pingback: Quora  
    Pingback: Quora  
    Pingback: Want to launch your business in Brazil? A Guide to Brazilian Startup Events | Brice Expansion  
    Pingback: Getting to Product/Market Fit | Seeqnce Blog  
    Pingback: Building Dynamic Business Models « Innovation Leadership Network  
    Pingback: Fake it till you make it - Startup Giraffe  
    Pingback: Why You Should Run Your Business Barefoot | Nir and Far  
    Pingback: The Product Owner Vision | The business needs product management to be agile, too.  
    Pingback: If You’re a Founder, Blogging is Your Highlight Reel « How To Launch A Startup  
    Pingback: The “Price” problem  
    Pingback: 4/3/12  
    Pingback: True Ventures Founders Camp : Neal Harmon  
    Pingback: Quora  
    
  URL : http://www.startup-marketing.com/the-startup-pyramid/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website