  
    GOV.UK blogs use cookies to make the site simpler. Find out more about cookies
  
    https://gds.blog.gov.uk/2018/10/17/building-a-better-gov-uk-step-by-step/  
    Since GOV.UK launched 6 years ago it has been the home of government’s online content and the starting point for online services.  
    Every week millions of people use GOV.UK to do complex and sometimes life-changing tasks, such as learning to drive, registering a birth or starting a business.  
    We want to make these tasks as easy as possible - by making content simple and user journeys intuitive. This is good for users because it makes it quicker to get things done. And it’s good for government because it reduces unnecessary contact and casework.  
    We know users face challenges carrying out tasks. There’s a lot of information to find for a start. Depending on the task, there might be appointments to book, forms to fill in, applications to be made and tests to take.  
    And what makes this even harder is that each step needs to be done at the right time and in the right order.  
    That’s why government needs to look at every step of this task. From the first thing the user does, to the last thing they need to do. We need to look at services from end to end.  
    The difficulty government faces when trying to make this easier is that people’s real-world tasks do not always fit neatly with the way government is organised into departments and agencies.  
    For example, a business wanting to hire their first employee needs information and services from 5 different areas of government before they can hire them:  
    Rather than organise GOV.UK around the structure of government, we’ve been working to organise content around user needs at scale. So, rather than being organised by department, content on GOV.UK is now organised into a single site-wide system of user-centred topics.  
    This topic structure will power new ways to search and browse the site, making things much easier to find.  
    But we want to go further - we want to make things easier to do.  
    So about a year ago we started experimenting with a new way for users to navigate GOV.UK. These experiments evolved into what we now call step by step navigation.  
    It looks like this on GOV.UK:  
    It means that, for the first time, we can show the user everything they’ll need to do to complete a task, whether that’s Learning to drive or Employing someone.  
    The navigation follows you throughout your journey, indicating what to do now and next. It also shows you previous steps you might have missed. For example, getting a provisional driving licence before booking a driving theory test.  
    Step by step navigation is designed to work with all existing content types and transactions on GOV.UK. Where appropriate, transactions can be broken down further using the separate task list pattern.  
    The design evolved over 8 rounds of research and iteration, including an in-depth review at the brilliant Digital Accessibility Centre in Neath.  
    Around half way through the lab research we began testing the pattern on GOV.UK. Analytics data showed that the first examples of step by step navigation were getting a lot of traffic. For example, learn to drive a car was used 1.24 million times in the first 6 months.  
    We ask users for feedback with the ‘Is this useful?’ survey banner at the bottom of every page on the site. This showed users were finding it useful.  
    We also ran a remote user research study where we asked users to complete a series of tasks before and after 3 step by step journeys were published.  
    The study showed the step by step navigation resulted in a significant increase in users’ successful task completion, as well as an increase in confidence they could use GOV.UK to find what they needed.  
    With encouraging data coming in, over the past 6 months we’ve been working to scale this approach so it can be used for the more complex tasks users need to do. These include:  
    As this table shows, the content that sits within these journeys often crosses multiple government departments and we need a collaborative approach to make these journeys better for users. Creating a new process for cross-government working to support this has been equally as important as designing a new way of navigating.  
    Over the past 6 months we’ve collaborated with more than 15 different departments to publish 25 step by step journeys.  
    We’re also indebted to the team at the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency who helped us map the first journeys: Learn to drive a car and Become a driving instructor when our work was still in prototype form. They’ve written a great blog post about the process.  
    We’ll be continuing to work with departments to map and publish step by step navigation for some of the most high priority and complex user journeys within government. As we do this we’ll keep a close eye on performance data to ensure this approach is still working well for users.  
    If you’re in a department or agency team and want to work with us to put together step by step journeys, we’d love to hear from you. Send us an email at modelling-services@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk.  
    Follow Sam and follow Gabrielle on Twitter and remember to sign up for blog alerts.  
    You may also be interested in:  
    
Comment by
Kyle Pierce
posted on
on 19 October 2018
  
    The part that I am curious about is if these optimized paths are the most popular requests? Was that part data-driven or selected out of convenience. Interesting to map coverage of website visits to these checklist pages. (i.e. 70% of the website visits focus on these 10 topics.) Then focus on the 30% which could be 100s of operations.  
    
Comment by
Sam Dub
posted on
on 19 October 2018
  
    Hi Kyle,
We had a few criteria for picking the first set of step by step journeys (lots more to come):
- We wanted to work on high volume journeys for maximum impact
- We wanted to choose a diverse set that would test the edges of our design pattern to make sure it worked for different kinds of journeys
- Insights from departments about areas that would benefit most from this approach e.g. existing services with high dropout rates  
    
Comment by
Stefan Buttigieg
posted on
on 19 October 2018
  
    Keep up the excellent work and great standards. Sincerely impressed by the focus on User Experience at this level!  
    
Comment by
james
posted on
on 19 October 2018
  
    gov.uk is a great site, as a developer I can appreciate the complexity of what you are trying to do, and how simple you are making it. It's something to be proud of. Well done and keep up the great work.  
    
Comment by
Alex
posted on
on 19 October 2018
  
    +1 to this - I'm also an expat developer and I'd like to take my hat off.  
    This is the simplest, clearest government UI I've seen.  
    Thank you and keep up the good work!  
    
Comment by
CrookedNose
posted on
on 17 October 2018
  
    I'm an expat and I've frequently used GOV. UK for a variety of reasons. I have never been less than impressed by its capability and have happily commented on this on each occasion. Well done, more power to your elbow!  
    
Comment by
NewWorldToOldWorld
posted on
on 19 October 2018
  
    Same here. Compared to the U.S. gov websites (which to be fair, are getting better recently), the GOV.UK sites have been fantastic. Keep doing the good work team!  
    Cancel reply  
      
      
      
    Government Digital Service (GDS) is leading the digital transformation of government.   
    Find out more.  
    Find out about current vacancies at GDS  
    Follow @DigiCareersGov  
    Read our guidelines  
    Open Government Licence  
    All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated  
    
  URL : https://gds.blog.gov.uk/2018/10/17/building-a-better-gov-uk-step-by-step/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website