  Hello,  
    We noticed you're browsing in private or incognito mode.  
    To continue reading this article, please exit incognito mode
				or log in.  
    Not an Insider? Subscribe now for unlimited access to online articles.  
    Visitors are allowed 3 free articles per month (without a subscription), and private browsing prevents us from counting how many stories you've read. We hope you understand, and consider subscribing for unlimited online access.  
    Click search or press enter  
    Evan Ricafort works from home, his office taking up a room in a house that he shares with his family along a national highway in the Philippines. While the 22-year-old’s parents go to work at a convenience store the family owns in the southern town of Ipil, he spends up to 75 hours a week inside, plugging away at his tricked-out computer. There, amidst a cacophony of  motorcycles, barking dogs, and wailing babies, he could be saving your personal data.  
    This article also appears in our newsletter Clocking In, which covers the impact of emerging technology on the future of work. Sign up here—it’s free!  
    Ricafort is a bug hunter, a name given to a particular breed of  do-good hackers who search for vulnerabilities in the software built and owned by some of the world’s largest tech companies before they can be exploited by bad guys. They don’t do it for free, of course: many companies pay (and sometimes pay pretty well) for submissions that help companies shore up the code their business depends on. There’s enough of this going around that being a bug bounty hunter is something of an emerging occupation.  
    But Ricafort doesn’t have a professional degree in computer science or coding. After one of his friends started posting about the bounties he was earning as a bug hunter, Ricafort took to the internet, reading up on blogs from other security researchers and tirelessly watching videos to learn the trade. His first bounty, he says, was nothing more than “a $50 bug from a random company.” But the thrill of the hunt had him hooked, and in 2014 it became his full-time career.  
    At first, his friends and family didn’t understand, but after he explained his work and the bounties began to roll in, they realized this was a real career option. And one with purpose. “You are also helping not just the company, but the whole community. The users and the people using the company,” Ricafort says.  
    Over the past four years, he has found vulnerabilities in the code of more than 200 companies, including Apple, Google, Microsoft, PayPal, Yahoo, IBM, and Twitch. Last year he landed his largest payout to date: a cool $5,000 (for a company he says he can’t name). “That was life-changing. I can’t put into words how it felt,” he said. He celebrated as any 21-year-old would: he did some traveling and bought himself a new toy, in the form of a BMX bike.  
    But the bug he’s probably best known for—the one that in many ways put him on the map of serious bug hunters—didn’t bring in a penny. Back in 2014 he spotted a flaw in Google Nest that could allow attackers to gain access to the personal and financial details of Nest customers, including credentials, payment card information, and scanned copies of items such as passports and ID cards. The find boosted him into Google’s Vulnerability Reward Program hall of fame, but the company’s security team said it was a problem with a third-party software vendor and therefore wasn’t eligible for a payout (he has, however, gotten paid by Google for other bugs he’s uncovered).  
    Unfortunately, that failure to get paid wasn’t an isolated incident. Other companies have offered him everything from swag to a tour of the US Capitol instead of money. And while Ricafort says he enjoys his shirt from the Dutch government that reads “I hacked the Dutch government and all I got was this lousy t-shirt,” it doesn’t help make ends meet.  
    Nevertheless, he says makes enough to get by—in an average month he estimates he makes around 10,000 Philippine pesos (equal to about $187), about an average salary in his country, while in a good month he might bring in 20,000 to 30,000 pesos ($374 to $561).  
    For many bug hunters, that’s how it goes: big fluctuations in pay, and often living on wages that would be untenable in an expensive Western country. That could be starting to change, though. Companies like Bugcrowd and HackerOne (both of which Ricafort has worked with) are making things easier for the bug-hunting community by offering schemes where hunters can earn more regular pay and get connected to companies that are willing to shell out. (For a deep dive into companies that help bug hunters get contracts, see “Crowdsourcing software bug hunters is a booming business—and a risky one.”)  
    By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters and
        notifications from MIT Technology Review. You can change your preferences at any time. View our
        Privacy Policy for more detail.
        
    Either way, Ricafort says, he enjoys the impact his work has. While he says he’d entertain the right offer for a full-time cybersecurity position, he feels he can make the biggest difference where he is now: fighting vulnerabilities in the background. As he put it, “My heart is for the bug bounty.”  
    This article is part of a series on jobs of the future. Check out other futuristic job profiles here.  
    Keep up with the latest in jobs of the future at EmTech MIT.Discover where tech, business, and culture converge.September 11-14, 2018MIT Media Lab  
    
job of the future, 
					
					future of work, 
					
					bug bounty, 
					
					computer bugs
  
    Erin Winick Associate Editor  
    I am the associate editor of the future of work at MIT Technology Review. I am particularly interested in automation and advanced manufacturing, spurring from my background in mechanical engineering. I produce our future of work e-mail… More newsletter, Clocking In, which takes a daily look at how technology is impacting the workplace. Before joining the publication I worked as a freelance science writer, founded the 3-D printing company Sci Chic, and interned at the Economist. Get in touch at erin.winick@technologyreview.com.  
    More videos  
    
				
					Business Impact
				
			  
    
				
					Business Impact
				
			  
    
				
					Business Impact
				
			  
    
				
					Business Impact
				
			  
    How technology advances are changing the economy and providing new opportunities in many industries.  
    
  
    Long before the internet, hate speech flourished in echo chambers of a different kind.  
    by 
	
		
			Nanjala Nyabola
		
	
  
    But research shows online polarization isn’t as clear-cut as people think.  
    by 
	
		
			Adam Piore
		
	
  
    The first Obama campaign kicked off a technological revolution                   in electioneering. Where is it going next?  
    by 
	
		
			Alex Howard
		
	
  
    More from Business Impact  
    
						
							Presented by
						
						IBM
  
    
						
							In partnership with
						
						Oracle
  
    
						
							Presented by
						
						IBM
  
    
							{! insider.display.menuOptionsLabel !}
						  
    
							Everything included in Insider Basic, plus the digital magazine, extensive archive, ad-free web experience, and discounts to partner offerings and MIT Technology Review events.
						  
    
										
											Print + Digital Magazine (6 bi-monthly issues)
										
									  
    
										
											Unlimited online access including all articles, multimedia, and more
										
									  
    
The Download newsletter with top tech stories delivered daily to your inbox
										
									  
    
										
											Technology Review PDF magazine archive, including articles, images, and covers dating back to 1899
										
									  
    
										
											10% Discount to MIT Technology Review events and MIT Press
										
									  
    
										
											Ad-free website experience
										
									  
    
							{! insider.display.menuOptionsLabel !}
						  
    
							Six issues of our award winning print magazine, unlimited online access plus The Download with the top tech stories delivered daily to your inbox.
						  
    
										
											Print Magazine (6 bi-monthly issues)
										
									  
    
										
											Unlimited online access including all articles, multimedia, and more
										
									  
    
The Download newsletter with top tech stories delivered daily to your inbox
										
									  
    
							{! insider.display.menuOptionsLabel !}
						  
    
							Unlimited online access including articles and video, plus The Download with the top tech stories delivered daily to your inbox.
						  
    
										
											Unlimited online access including all articles, multimedia, and more
										
									  
    
The Download newsletter with top tech stories delivered daily to your inbox
										
									  
    
*
					{! insider.display.footerLabel !}
				  
    
See international prices
  
    
See U.S. prices
  
    
Revert to MIT Enterprise Forum pricing
  
    
Revert to standard pricing
  
       
    By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters and
          notifications from MIT Technology Review. You can change your preferences at any time. View our
          Privacy Policy for more detail.
          
    Follow us  
    The mission of MIT Technology Review is to bring about better-informed and more conscious decisions about technology through authoritative, influential, and trustworthy journalism.  
    BrowseInternationalEditions  
    
MIT Technology Review © 2018
v.|eiπ|
  
    
  URL : https://www.technologyreview.com/s/611896/life-as-a-bug-bounty-hunter/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website