  Advertisement  
    Supported by  
    By Jaclyn Peiser  
    The New York Times continued its digital growth in the second quarter of 2018, adding 109,000 digital-only subscribers. With that rise came an increase in revenue that counteracted a decline in print advertising.  
    The company said on Wednesday that revenue from digital subscriptions rose to $99 million in the second quarter, a jump of nearly 20 percent compared with the same period a year ago. Over all for the second quarter, total revenue increased 2 percent, to $415 million, and the company reported a profit of almost $24 million.  
    The Times now has 2.9 million digital-only subscribers, out of 3.8 million total.  
    “Subscription revenues accounted for nearly two-thirds of the company’s revenues, a trend we expect to continue,” Mark Thompson, the company’s chief executive, said in a news release. “We continue to believe that there is significant runway to expand that base substantially.”  
    Shares of The New York Times Company fell on Wednesday, closing 6.6 percent lower.  
    Other company revenue grew 40 percent in the second quarter, largely as a result of the company’s agreement with Newsday to print and transport its publications. Other sources of revenue included the renting of an additional four floors in the New York headquarters and the success of Wirecutter, a review and recommendation website bought by The Times in 2016.  
    Even with the rise in digital subscriptions, the company had a 10 percent decline in advertising revenue, with digital advertising revenue falling 7.5 percent, to $51 million. Print advertising revenue decreased in the second quarter of the year by 11.5 percent, to $68 million.  
    The second quarter of 2017, during which digital advertising experienced a 23 percent increase, was an outlier, thanks in part to the so-called Trump Bump.  
    “This is a subdued quarter for digital advertising, as we predicted, but we remain confident that we will return to strong year-over-year growth in the third quarter,” Mr. Thompson said.  
    Operating profit for the second quarter increased to $40 million, from $26.5 million in the same period last year. Adjusted operating profit, the company’s preferred method of assessing performance, decreased to $59 million in the second quarter, compared with $65 million last year.  
    Operating costs decreased to $373 million, nearly $6 million less than in the second quarter of 2017, mostly because of lower severance costs, which were partially offset by higher marketing costs and growth in commercial printing.  
    Looking ahead, Mr. Thompson said he expected total subscription revenue to continue to grow.  
    “We’re also pleased with our progress in driving international subscriptions, especially in markets like Australia and the U.K., where we’re making coordinated efforts with journalism, opinion and new marketing tactics,” Mr. Thompson said Wednesday on an earnings call.  
    The company also expects a 10 percent increase in digital advertising in the next quarter and an overall advertising revenue decrease in the low single digits.  
    The podcast The Daily has also proved to be a successful tool in attracting a younger audience to The Times.  
    “The Daily is a very successful ad business,” Meredith Kopit Levien, executive vice president and chief operating officer, said in the earnings call. “We have a ton of evidence that suggests that the format of The Daily, which is essentially one big story and sometimes two, actually makes people more likely to engage in our platform.”  
    Mr. Thompson said he was optimistic that a coming TV show with FX and Hulu called “The Weekly” will have a similar impact.  
    “We hope that ‘The Weekly’ will bring Times journalism to new audiences, generate substantial revenue itself, and support engagement and subscription to our core digital news and opinion offering,” Mr. Thompson said.  
    Follow Jaclyn Peiser on twitter: @jackiepeiser.  
      
    Advertisement  
    
  URL : https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/08/business/media/new-york-times-earnings-subscriptions.html?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website