  On the business, strategy, and impact of technology.  
    It’s difficult to overstate the significance of Adobe’s announcement that all of their products will be solely available through Creative Cloud. No longer can you buy packaged version of Photoshop, for example, that are yours forever. Instead you can subscribe to different individual apps or suites. What makes this so interesting is that while companies come out with new products all of the time – this is the 20th version of Photoshop! – very rarely do they come out with new business models.  
    There are several obvious reasons for this move:  
    However, there are a couple of bigger picture factors at play as well.  
    As I noted yesterday, the jobs we hire a PC to do are being increasingly done by dedicated devices. If Adobe wants to be relevant in a world where users interact with as many as five different devices in a day, then a per-device licensing model is clearly unsustainable.  
    Enter the SaaS model. Users can use Adobe products on as many devices as they wish. It is, ultimately, an obvious and necessary shift, and kudos to Adobe for doing it. (Update: You can only use the apps on two PCs, and you still have to pay for the tablet apps. Still better than now, but “kudos” should probably be singular – kudo?)  
    Even so, their aggressiveness – there will be no more packaged software, period – seems surprising, but the truth is Adobe is probably thrilled with their new model.  
    Productivity apps have never been a good fit for the packaged software model.  
    The reason has to do with what is called Economic Surplus. From Wikipedia:  
    
  Economic surplus refers to two related quantities. Consumer surplus is the monetary gain obtained by consumers because they are able to purchase a product for a price that is less than the highest price that they would be willing to pay. Producer surplus is the amount that producers benefit by selling at a market price that is higher than the least that they would be willing to sell for.
  
    I’ve illustrated what this looks like for packaged software:  
    Imagine how this plays out for Photoshop:  
    How do you price a product to best monetize these three very different consumers? If you price too high, you may never acquire Consumer A or C (And Consumer C is a big loss). If you price too low, you are effectively subsidizing your consumers, which may make them feel warm and fuzzy, but not your shareholders.  
    Moving to a subscription vastly improves this model, for both users and Adobe.  
    Consider again the three types of consumers I listed above:  
    Moreover, Adobe is well-incentivised to maintain the app to reduce churn, and users always have the most recent version. It really is a win-win.4  
    The challenges facing Adobe are shared by almost all productivity apps.  
    Unfortunately, app store economics don’t really work here.  
    Trials do ameliorate the pain a little, particularly if you pursue the high price option, but they don’t address the time mismatch: as a productivity app becomes more valuable, the developer doesn’t get a dime of more revenue.  
    For the most part, I tend to turn a deaf ear to developer griping about App Store policies. The purpose of iOS, Android, Windows Phone, etc. is not to make developers’ lives easy; it’s to attract users for the purpose of making money for Apple, Google,5 and Microsoft, respectively. Adopting developer-friendly policies only makes sense to the extent it will attract more users, and most of what developers want doesn’t qualify.  
    This is an exception. Platform owners should add subscription support for productivity apps.6  
    What makes monetizing productivity apps so tricky is that they are indispensable to some consumers, yet overwhelming to others. It’s that indispensable part, though, that should matter to platform owners. If a user comes to depend on certain productivity apps that are only available on one platform – and, in general, mobile productivity apps are much more likely to be monogamous – then that user is effectively bound to the platform, and won’t even consider another platform when it comes time to upgrade.  
    The opportunity for growth in smartphones is increasingly previous-smartphone owners (as opposed to new smartphone owners). Keeping those owners around should be a top priority for every platform, and one of the best ways to do so is fully supporting a subscription model for productivity apps. It will make them more successful and thus stickier, ultimately to the platform’s long-term benefit.  
    
  URL : https://stratechery.com/2013/adobes-subscription-model-why-platform-owners-should-care/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website