  Forms provide several controls that make it easier to collect input from users. Using the right control at right place is a challenge while designing forms.  
    A checkbox control has three states: unselected, selected, and indeterminate. The last state represents a situation where a list of sub-options is grouped under a parent option and sub-options are in both selected and unselected states.  
    A toggle switch represents a physical switch that allows users to turn things on or off, like a light switch.  
    Tapping a toggle switch is a two-step action: selection and execution, whereas checkbox is just selection of an option and its execution usually requires another control.  
    When deciding between a checkbox and toggle switch control, it is better to focus on the usage context instead of their function.  
    Below are few use-cases along with guidelines to decide between these two controls while designing form experience.  
    It is important to provide right control at right place in a form to make it more user-friendly. Since forms can be very long with large number of options, it becomes tedious for user if he has to make extra clicks to fill his information. The provided use-cases and guidelines will help you to decide between checkbox and toggle switch while adding controls to your forms.  
    Thanks for reading. Find more related articles at uxdworld.com.  
    Get my free 5-day UX design course via email.  
    If you have any questions, contact me and I will write about it: Linkedin |Twitter | Facebook  
    From a quick cheer to a standing ovation, clap to show how much you enjoyed this story.  
    UX Design Passionate | Love to share and learn about UX design | Occasionally write about life lessons | minhas.saadia@yahoo.com | https://uxdworld.com/  
    UX Planet is a one-stop resource for everything related to user experience.  
    
  URL : https://uxplanet.org/checkbox-vs-toggle-switch-7fc6e83f10b8?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website