  "While we have much to be proud of in this achievement, it’s not the most important measure of our success."  
    By
      
        John Paczkowski
  
    Technology and Business Editor  
    
    Posted on August 2, 2018, at 10:56 p.m. ET
      
      
    In 1997, Apple was, according to Steve Jobs, about 90 days from going broke. But today, 21 years later, the phone and computer company made history as the first corporation to ever be valued at $1 trillion.  
    Though largely symbolic, the valuation is a telling reminder of Apple's dominance of the technology industry. And Thursday evening, Apple CEO Tim Cook emailed employees to celebrate hitting the milestone. BuzzFeed News obtained a copy of Cook's email. You can read it below.  
    Team,  
    Today Apple passed a significant milestone. At our closing share price of $207.39, the stock market now values Apple at more than $1 trillion. While we have much to be proud of in this achievement, it’s not the most important measure of our success. Financial returns are simply the result of Apple’s innovation, putting our products and customers first, and always staying true to our values.  
    It’s you, our team, that makes Apple great and our success is due to your hard work, dedication and passion. I am deeply humbled by what you do, and it’s the privilege of a lifetime to work alongside you. I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for all the late hours and extra trips, all the times you refuse to settle for anything less than excellence in our work together.  
    Let’s take this moment to thank our customers, our suppliers and business partners, the Apple developer community, our coworkers and all those who came before us at this remarkable company.  
    Steve founded Apple on the belief that the power of human creativity can solve even the biggest challenges — and that the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones who do. In today’s world, our mission is more important than ever. Our products not only create moments of surprise and delight, they empower people all around the globe to enrich their lives and the lives of others.  
    Just as Steve always did in moments like this, we should all look forward to Apple’s bright future and the great work we’ll do together.  
    Tim  
      
    John Paczkowski is a technology and business editor for BuzzFeed News and is based in San Francisco.  
    Contact John Paczkowski at john.paczkowski@buzzfeed.com.  
    Got a confidential tip? Submit it here.  
    Looks like your browser doesn't support JavaScript.  
    
  URL : https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/johnpaczkowski/read-tim-cooks-email-to-employees-about-apples-1-trillion?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website