    
    First, building a product you would want to use yourself is motivating. As an example, when I was younger I programmed some games for fun, partly motivated by enjoying the process of creating them, but also motivated by the reward at the end of being able to enjoy playing them. It’s rare to hear about people who create software for fun that they themselves won’t use.  
    This motivation makes the work more enjoyable, which makes it easier to work hard and persist for long periods of time, which is a very important factor in success and personal development. Also, other people will be more motivated to build the product for the same reason, which makes it easier to build a team, and it means they will be more motivated themselves. You will probably have friends who want to use your product, and it can be motivating to build something that they like.  
    Second, if you use a product yourself, your intuition will point more closely toward the right strategy for the business. Market research and experiments are useful in either situation, but sometimes there is a need to commit resources and go against the iterative ROI-maximizing path that they will point toward, maybe to break into a new market, or to get multiple interlocking changes to all fit together. In a scenario like this, having strong intuition and confidence in it is very important in designing a strategy.  
    If you are not a typical customer of your product, you can build up this intuition over time as you run a company, but you won’t start out with it, because you haven’t been exposed to customers’ preferences in a deep way. This can make it a lot harder to get initial traction or funding.  
    
  URL : https://www.quora.com/As-a-startup-founder-what-are-the-pros-and-cons-of-building-something-you-would-want-to-use-yourself/answer/Adam-DAngelo?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website