  Many companies have strong alumni networks.  The most famous of which is the PayPal Mafia which includes Peter Thiel, Reid Hoffman, Elon Musk, David Sacks, Jeremy Stoppelman, Luke Nosek, Keith Rabois, Reid Hoffman, Max Levchin, Roelof Botha, and many others.  It is a truly astonishing alumni network.  
    The best predictor of having a strong alumni network is a company that: (1) had a successful outcome but not crazy successful (like a Facebook or a Google); (2) the company went through a bunch of trying times (and almost went out of business); and (3) the employees built a company that was super enduring and even prospered post-exit.  
    PayPal fits all three of these criteria.  It had a strong exit (but not Google-like  escape velocity), it almost went out of business multiple times (highly recommend reading PayPal Wars by Eric Jackson), and it continues today as an independent company (NASDAQ:PYPL) that was spun out of eBay (its original acquirer in 2002).    
    I often get asked why the LiveRamp alumni have been so successful.  While the exit was only 20% of PayPal, it had many of the exact same characteristics.  (1) The exit was good; (2) the company almost went out of business multiple times (and like PayPal, we had to pivot hard from “Rapleaf” to “LiveRamp”); and (3) we built a company so enduring that it ended up being the crown jewel of the acquirer and now is an independent public company (trades at NYSE:RAMP).   
    At the time of announcing our exit (in May 2014), LiveRamp was around 50 people.  It is amazing how many of those original LiveRampers are now doing super interesting things.  
    So without further ado, I list the notable LiveRamp alumni and what they are doing at time of writing (Jan 2019) … please let me know if I missed anyone.  
    In addition, many of the best people at LiveRamp are STILL at LiveRamp.   That includes:  
    Summation:  while LiveRamp was a company chock-full of talent.  Its alumni success was due to being a company that: (1) had a successful outcome but not crazy successful (like a Facebook or a Google); (2) the company went through a bunch of trying times (and almost went out of business); and (3) the employees built a company that was super enduring and even prospered post-exit.  
      
    Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:  
    

			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			

  
    

			You are commenting using your Google+ account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			

  
    

			You are commenting using your Twitter account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			

  
    

			You are commenting using your Facebook account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			

  
    Connecting to %s  
     Notify me of new comments via email.  
     

  
      
      
    
  URL : https://summation.net/2019/01/06/the-liveramp-mafia/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website