  “Big companies most effective asymmetric warfare tactic against startups: requesting endless meeting.” That was the tweet which started a funny back and forth of corporate-speak that Pando’s Michael Carney summarized in Shit Big Companies Say. My original quip was prompted by a lunch with a friend who works at a BigCo CorpDev and often meets with startups. She’s awesome – very smart, understands BigCo very well – but seemed surprised when I suggested she was probably underestimating the time impact of these meetings on startups. “But usually it’s just a 45 minute or hour chat and we don’t ask them to prepare anything,” she said. Hmm, that’s kinda like sitting down in a restaurant and assuming the amount of time you spent eating is all that goes into making a meal, forgetting the total effort it took to gather, prep, cook and serve.  
    It’s usually innocuous. BigCo isn’t trying to harm the startup. There’s actual interest from a product manager, executive or other stakeholder to speak with the company and understand whether there might be a relationship to create. But while it’s true 100% of consummated partnerships started with a meeting, it’s also true 100% of discussions which went nowhere started with a meeting. As a startup, figuring out how and when to engage is essential to not losing focus and driving the process towards a desired outcome. Some thoughts:  
    and lastly….  
    Pingback: How to Get Acquired | Tech's Common Good  
    Pingback: How to make bus dev meetings with large companies successful and avoid time-wasters | A Founder's Notebook  
    Pingback: Successful startups say “no” | Venture Generated Content  
    Pingback: Successful startups say “no” | Startup Products  
    Comments are closed.  
    Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.  
      
    





 
		                Follow                    
  
    @hunterwalk on Twitter  
    hunterwalk on Instagram  
    You should really cover your webcam!  
    OMG, a Stranger Things-themed Dungeons & Dragons is coming!  
    
  URL : https://hunterwalk.com/2014/10/10/lets-meet-how-to-prevent-big-companies-from-wasting-your-startups-time/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website