  As time goes on I find myself increasingly annoyed with login forms. As password managers like 1Password (which is what I use) and Chrome’s password manager (which I also sorta use) become more popular, it’s important for websites to be aware of how users go about logging into their sites.  
    Let’s walk through some login patterns and why I think they’re not ideal. And then let’s look at some better ways of tackling login. TL;DR; create login forms that are simple, linkable, predictable, and play nicely with password managers.  
    Here are some patterns that I encounter on websites that I think should be avoided.  
      
    Hertz and a whole bunch of other sites keep their login form in a modal window or a drawer. The problems with this pattern are:  
      
    Delta’s site hides a required “Last Name” field, which I’d assume is to clean up the UI by introducing a bit of progressive disclosure.   The problem is that field is required, and because it’s hidden password managers can’t pre-fill the field. Users have to exit out of another field in order to expose this surprise extra field to fill. It’s just one additional, unnecessary hoop they have to jump through in order to login.  
    MacOS login screen also buries the password field to “clean up” the UI (and I’d also assume to encourage users to login via TouchID), but that cleanliness leads to (in my view) a more confusing experience.  
      
    I think this may have started with Slack, but I’m seeing other digital products like Notion (which I love by the way) send users a temporary password to their email in order to login. I can appreciate the cleverness of this pattern as it avoids the rigamarole of users having to remember yet another password and building out all the “Forgot password” flow stuff. But.  
      
      
      
    Shopify (another service I love) annoyingly splits its login across three separate screens. Again, I can appreciate the intention here: they’re not trying to overload a user with too much info at once. And while I agree with this pattern for certain contexts (like in an e-commerce flow you typically see billing information, shipping method and address, credit card info, etc chunked out into discrete steps), this is overkill for what’s essentially a three-field form.  
    So what should web designers do instead? I think having a boring old predictable login form is just fine. Here’s Harvest:  
      
    And here’s WordPress:  
      
    Simple, concise, predictable. Works with password managers. Good stuff. Here’s some considerations:  
    This list isn’t exhaustive and I haven’t touched on things like social login or two-factor authentication, so I’d love to hear more from you about other patterns to be avoided or gotchas to look out for.  
    Posted by Brad Frost on 14 Feb, 2019  
    Tags: forms, login, patterns, ux  
    I'm Brad Frost, a web designer, speaker, consultant, writer, and musician located in beautiful Pittsburgh, PA.  
    I educate organizations about design systems, atomic design, responsive design, strategy, and more. I love helping teams understand the concepts, techniques, and tools used to create successful design systems and establish more collaborative workflows. If you're interested in having me in to give a one or multi-day workshop at your company, get in touch!  
    I help organizations create successful design systems and bring great web projects to life. From strategic guidance to in-the-weeds design and dev work, I can be as hands-on or hands-off as needed to ensure your project is a success.  
    I write HTML, CSS, and presentational JavaScript, and I aim to create experiences that look and function beautifully across anything that can access the web. If you have a project that could use my frontend help, please feel free to reach out.  
    I write about web design best practices, design systems, responsive design, and other tasty topics on my blog. I also enjoy sharing and commenting on interesting links from around the web.  
    I've had the opportunity to collaborate with some amazing people to create tools and resources for web designers, including Pattern Lab, Styleguides.io, This Is Responsive, Death to Bullshit, & more.  
    Interested in having me conduct a workshop at your company? Have a project that could use some consulting or frontend help? Have a question? Get in touch!  
    I play music with my wife and brother in our home studio. Nothing serious; I just love playing music.  
    You can follow along on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Github, Codepen, LinkedIn, Spotify, Last.fm, and Noti.st  
    
  URL : http://bradfrost.com/blog/post/dont-get-clever-with-login-forms/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website