  I have a dream  
    I want to ship products and earn $1,000 a month doing it.  
    Why $1,000?  
    I’m currently living in Bali, where I can live comfortably off of $1,000 per month. This isn’t San-Francisco or Dubai where $1,000 moves quickly. In Bali, $1,000 can pay for your rent, scooter, eating out three meals a day and most importantly all the coffee you could possibly drink.  
    Mr. Aj if he is reading this he is probably facepalming because he said “OMFG STOP” to a similar guy.  
    Struggling through the drowning effects of a tough headache, I entertained myself by chatting with my users of Dark Mode List and trying to offer ads to them. That’s when this happened.  
    I took those $4.00 as a sign ?  
    Later, I’ve got the advice from my friend, Pieter Levels while we sat in the local Balinese cafe at 4AM:  
    I didn’t hate my job but I knew that following my passion, instead of just daydreaming about it, was going to be the road to success.  
    I felt the looming urge to take the jump, but the logistical part of me was terrified.  
    I feared randomly being fired from my job, emptying my bank account and wasting my time on a dream that didn’t pan out.  
    I wrote down these fears and realized that on paper, they weren’t so scary. My fear was coming from an emotional state. I feared the unknown that would come with quitting my job and attempting to create something on my own. Looking at my fears, I wrote down the worst case scenario for each situation.  
    Worst case scenario, I spend all of my money and have to move back in with my parents (Hi Mom). But atleast I become a better coder and with true hardcore startup experience :D  
    I decided the time was now.  
    The main problem is finding this mysterious product/market fit. The key to my success was going to lie in discovering the intersection between pain point and a product somebody is willing to pay for.  
    The infamous YC quote states, “Make Something That People Love.”  
    But how do you actually do that?  
    These questions are the start up trap. Thinking that I have to analyze each move and make sure that every action I take is perfected is going to paralyze me.  
    I have to cut my fears and go head first into the startup world.  
    Quitting everything and attempting to create something has led me to realize some existential characteristics that reside in myself and other new entrepreneurs.  
    All of these characteristics might point to failure, but I have a secret up my sleeve.  
    My friend Pieter Levels, the guy who created 12 startups in 12 months earns five figures by creating indie startups, is insanely inspiring.  
    Spending nights with him and Marc and watching how they are built their dreams from code and scratch showed me the possibility.  
    Seeing somebody else succeeding in the same path that I desired told me everything I needed to know.  
    I officially quit my job and made a commitment to myself to make product(s) with $1,000 / monthly revenue by shipping full time for 1 year. I’m going to leave the results of my experiment open for other entrepreneurs to watch.  
    In these upcoming 365 days, my plan is to become a hardcore shipper. I’m going to make as many products as I can in these few weeks and cross my fingers the parachute will deploy.  
    I’ve made a conscious decision to be as open with my goals as possible. It’s this accountability that is going to force me to finish what I started, practice discipline and learn to be consistent.  
    And follow me in Twitter  
    And if you’re feeling really generous, you can buy me a pack of ramen by sending $2 to my PayPal address  
    And now, it is go time!  
    Warning: Do not try this at home :D  
    Pieter for inspiration, Marc for photos and ideas , Eva for editing , Fyodor proof reading  
    By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.  
    I ? quit my job and I have 1 year to get to ?profit as Indie Maker: https://www.Sheet2Site.com + https://DarkModeList.com + PushToDeploy + WhenToSurf  
    
  URL : https://medium.com/@AndreyAzimov/i-quit-my-job-and-i-have-one-year-to-get-to-profitability-6159db01d9c2?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website