  This blog post was most directly provoked by this tweet from my friend Rob Conery, explaining why he’s giving up contributing on Stack Overflow.  
    However, it’s been a long time coming. A while ago I started writing a similar post, but it got longer and longer without coming to any conclusion. I’m writing this one with a timebox of one hour, and then I’ll post whatever I’ve got. (I may then reformat it later.)  
    I’m aware of the mixed feelings many people have about Stack Overflow. Some consider it to be completely worthless, but I think more people view it as “a valuable resource, but a scary place to contribute due to potential hostility.” Others contribute on a regular basis, occasionally experiencing or witnessing hostility, but generally having a reasonable time.  
    This post talks about my experiences and my thoughts on where Stack Overflow has a problem, where I disagree with some of the perceived problems, and what can be done to improve the situation. This is a topic I wish I’d had time to talk about in more detail with the Stack Overflow team when I visited them in New York in February, but we were too busy discussing other important issues.  
    For a lot of this post I’ll talk about “askers” and “answerers”. This is a deliberate simplification for the sake of, well, simplicity. Many users are both askers and answerers, and a lot of the time I’ll write comments with a view to being an answerer, but without necessarily ending up writing an answer. Although any given user may take on different roles even in the course of an hour, for a single post each person usually has a single role. There are other roles of course “commenter on someone else’s answer” for example – I’m not trying to be exhaustive here.  
    Like most things in life, Stack Overflow works best when everyone has the same goal. We can all take steps towards that goal together. Conversely, when people in a single situation have different goals, that’s when trouble often starts.  
    On Stack Overflow, the most common disconnect is between these two goals:  
    In my case, I have often have a sub-goal of “try to help improve the diagnostic skill of software engineers so that they’re in a better position to solve their own problems.”  
    As an example, consider this question – invented, but not far-fetched:  
    
  Random keeps giving me the same numbers. Is it broken?
  
    This is a low-quality question, in my view. (I’ll talk more about that later.) I know what the problem is likely to be, but to work towards my goal I want the asker to improve the question – I want to see their code, the results etc. If I’m right about the problem (creating multiple instances of System.Random in quick succession, which will also use the same system-time-based seed), I’d then almost certainly be able to close the question as a duplicate, and it could potentially be deleted. In its current form, it provides no benefit to the site. I don’t want to close the question as a duplicate without seeing that it really is a duplicate though.  
    Now from the asker’s perspective, none of that is important. If they know that I have an idea what the problem might be, their perspective is probably that I should just tell them so they can be unblocked. Why take another 10 minutes to reproduce the problem in a good question, if I can just give them the answer now? Worse, if they do take the time to do that and then I promptly close their question as a duplicate, it feels like wasted time.  
    Now if I ignored emotions, I’d argue that the time wasn’t wasted:  
    But ignoring emotions is a really bad idea, because we’re all human. What may well happen in that situation – even if I’ve been polite throughout – is that the asker will decide that Stack Overflow is full of “traffic cop” moderators who only care about wielding power. I could certainly argue that that’s unfair – perhaps highlighting my actual goals – but that may not change anyone’s mind.  
    So that’s one problem. How does the Stack Overflow community agree what the goal of site is, and then make that clearer to users when they ask a question? It’s worth noting that the tour page (which curiously doesn’t seem to be linked from the front page of the site any more) does include this text:  
    
  With your help, we’re working together to build a library of detailed answers to every question about programming.
  
    I tend to put it slightly differently:  
    
  The goal of Stack Overflow is to create a repository of high-quality questions, and high-quality answers to those questions.
  
    Is that actually a shared vision? If askers were aware of it, would that help? I’d like to hope so, although I doubt that it would completely stop all problems. (I don’t think anything would. The world isn’t a perfect place.)  
    Let’s move onto another topic where I disagree with some people: low-quality questions.  
    I assert that even if it can’t be measured in a totally objective manner, there are high-quality questions and low-quality questions (and lots in between).  
    I view a high-quality question in the context of Stack Overflow as one which:  
    There are lots of questions which meet all those requirements, or at least most of them.  
    I think it’s reasonable to assert that such a question is of higher quality than a question which literally consists of a link to a photo of a homework assignment, and that’s it. Yes, I’ve seen questions like that. They’re not often quite that bad, but if we really can’t agree that that is a low-quality question, I don’t know what we can agree on.  
    Of course, there’s a huge spectrum in between – but I think it’s important to accept that there are such things as low-quality questions, or at least to debate it and find out where we disagree.  
    I’ve seen a lot of Meta posts complaining that Stack Overflow is too hard on newcomers, who can’t be expected to write a good question.  
    I would suggest that a newcomer who accepts the premise of the site and is willing to put in effort is likely to be able to come up with at least a reasonable question. It may take them longer to perform the research and write the question, and the question may well not be as crisp as one written by a more experienced developer in the same situation, but I believe that on the whole, newcomers are capable of writing questions of sufficient quality for Stack Overflow. They may not be aware of what they need to do or why, but that’s a problem with a different solution than just “we should answer awful questions which show no effort because the asker may be new to tech”.  
    One slightly separate issue is whether people have the diagnostic skills required to write genuinely good questions. This is a topic dear to my heart, and I really wish I had a good solution, but I don’t. I firmly believe that if we can help programmers become better at diagnostics, then that will be of huge benefit to them well beyond asking better Stack Overflow questions.  
    I’m certainly not going to claim that the Stack Overflow community is perfect. I have seen people being rude to people asking bad questions – and I’m not going to excuse that. If you catch me being rude, call me out on it. I don’t believe that requesting improvements to a question is rude in and of itself though. It can be done nicely, or it can be done meanly. I’m all for raising the level of civility on Stack Overflow, but I don’t think that has to be done at the expense of site quality.  
    I’d also say that I’ve experienced plenty of askers who react very rudely to being asked for more information. It’s far from one way traffic. I think I’ve probably seen more rudeness in this direction than from answerers, in fact – although the questions usually end up being closed and deleted, so anyone just browsing the site casually is unlikely to see that.  
    My timebox is rapidly diminishing, so let me get to the most important point. We need to be nicer to each other.  
      
    I’ve deliberately called this my covenant, because it’s not my place to try to impose it on anyone else. If you think it’s something you could get behind (maybe with modifications), that’s great. If Stack Overflow decides to adopt it somewhere in the site guidelines, they’re very welcome to take it and change it however they see fit.  
    Essentially, I see many questions as a sort of transaction between askers and answerers. As such, it makes sense to have a kind of contract – but that sounds more like business, so I’d prefer to think of a covenant of good faith.  
    As an answerer, I will…  
    As an asker, I will…  
    I hope that most of the time, I’ve already been following that. Sometimes I suspect I’ve fallen down. Hopefully by writing it out explicitly, and then reading it, I’ll become a better community member.  
    I think if everyone fully took something like this on board before posting anything on Stack Overflow, we’d be in a better place.  
    Some of the lowest-rated/scored posts have proven to be exactly what I needed to resolve problems. So, the whole the-post-with-the-highest-this-or-that-rating-wins mentality, for me anyway, has no real substantive value or basis in “reality,” other than they are mere ratings based on opinions that are per se possibly flawed. Making SO a competitive environment, IMO, is the wrong approach. A more teamwork-like environment would prove and produce a much more productive, respectful, fruitful environment.  
    LikeLiked by 1 person  
    You raise an interesting point about the competitive nature of the site for answerers.  
    I wonder if the site had an option to let answerers opt-in to “merge” answers (and the answerers shared the rep) if that might help. I get that an answerer doesn’t want to “give up” any rep gained and bow out after putting in effort… but keeping multiple “almost the same” answers isn’t the best either.  
    That all said I love helping others on the site… however I’m guilty of wanting that rep. It does feel very good to gain it… and thus there is a risk that it will negatively affect my behaviour.  
    LikeLike  
    Yes! Thank you. This vocalizes(erm what is the equivalent for writing?) thoughts that have been meandering around my head for quite a while. This kind of attitude towards people is, I suspect another reason why you’re held in such high regard on SO  
    LikeLike  
    “articulates”  
    LikeLike  
    I have ‘mostly’ stop contributing because of two reasons:
1 – Askers normally too lazy to do their own research, their questions are either too trivial or just a copy paste of homework.
2 – Askers dont bother to accept/upvote answers. They treat SO like a disposable QA site, where they get an answer quick and leave… and I am left wondering… did I answered him or not? No comment… nothing…  
    I do sometimes ‘contribute’ by answering my own problem… or by answering very old questions that happens to be easily solvable by new framework/language feature.  
    LikeLike  
    Thanks Jon. I too, have given up on Stack Overflow, for much the same reasons your friend has. The bottom line for me is that it can be a huge time sink, and I too often find myself feeling like I’m swimming upstream against a flood of useless, lazy questions.  
    This is made worse by poor community moderation, in which some of the worst questions, either in terms of presentation or research, get the most up-votes. Ironically, these are most often the questions that the Fastest Gun in the West folks jump on (they are bad questions because they’ve already been answered dozens of times, but they’ve been answered so often because they’re easy to answer). The high number of quick answers means that the question can’t be closed; the people posting answers up-vote the question, and of course the asker up-votes some or all of the answers, producing a false signal of high quality.  
    Add to that the decidedly non-productive reaction askers and answerers have when they are critiqued. Rude comments (often profane), personal attacks, and of course revenge down-votes all serve to dissuade a person from providing any feedback as to why they voted a particular way. It often seems like one has to choose between educating users and moderating the site, when in fact those two activities should go hand in hand.  
    I do believe that the bottom line is as you state: when different members of the community have different goals, it is difficult if not impossible to have a conflict-free experience. Unfortunately, while there are positive aspects to the Stack Overflow model, it suffers from this fundamental truth about human behavior.  
    One last note, on this part of your post: ” I don’t want to close the question as a duplicate without seeing that it really is a duplicate though.” I approach that situation (and in fact, that exact example…that question is asked far too often) much differently from you. I believe that questions that don’t meet the bar should be closed as quickly as possible. And as you even point out, askers typically aren’t appreciative of attempts to educate them. They just want someone to fix their problem now. You can be nearly certain, in that particular example and many others like it, that the question is in fact a duplicate. The right thing to do is to close the question as a duplicate.  
    In the vast majority of the cases, this will solve the immediate concerns of both asker and answerer. The asker gets the help they need, the answerer spends a minimum of time on that particular question. Win-win. In the rare, almost inconceivable, case where the question isn’t a duplicate, closing is still the correct thing to do. It locks down the question, preventing spurious answers, and giving the community some breathing room in which to help the asker improve their question. If the asker is open to constructive criticism and is willing to make more effort, then they will find that they can in fact improve the question suitably, get it re-opened, and get a good answer. And since the question is now proven not to be a duplicate, we get a high quality question with a high quality answer.  
    If the asker is unwilling, then we avoid wasting any significant time on a question that no one really understands, which won’t be helpful to future users, and which can’t be given a high quality answer. In that scenario, the asker loses, but only because they made that choice. Stack Overflow is just not the right place to try to save people from themselves. They have to be wiling participants in that process, and I don’t lose any sleep over users who aren’t.  
    LikeLike  
    For those who might find this interesting I have started something similar but different in concept, mainly on SO you come with the question, on my you come with the solution.  
    LikeLike  
    As someone with a modest 9.5k points as equal answerer and asker, the only issues I’ve ever had with the site are the duplicate police being a little too quick to mark a question as duplicate. Once this happens I’ve found that it’s impossible to salvage the question.
Often, I’ve already read the question that I’ve supposedly duplicated and found it inadequate. The question could be similar but different or the answers are old as tech moves on so fast.  
    LikeLiked by 3 people  
    I suggest you link the “duplicates” you’ve found at the top on your question and explain why they’re inadequate.  This has worked for me.  
    LikeLike  
    I have found that many times the anti-duplication engine that you get when writing a question works quite well.  So well, in fact, that I’ll skip searching for a question, and go straight to writing it, and let the engine do the searching. At least a third of the time, the answer to me question is already of there.  
    LikeLike  
    As for the low quality of the question, how about opening up a “small scratchpad” kinda thing on the right? It would be just like comments, but the underlying aim would be different – guessing what might be wrong. Weird I agree, but maybe one way to keep things humane. Like in the random number example you gave, what if you (or someone else) just posted in this scratchpad that, “You might be generating random numbers too quickly!” This will provide a quick fix for the asker (I agree he’s at fault, but at least he won’t turn rude on being asked to edit). Once he confirms that the issue is resolved, we could then just delete the question altogether. We could of course do that in comments as well, but then this “guessing” would interfere with the actual clarifications that others prospective answers might seek from the asker.  
    I agree this is not the best solution, but it was just a small suggestion to help everyone!  
    LikeLiked by 1 person  
    IMO they should just remove the ability to close questions, or be much more relaxed about what constitutes a valid question for SO. Lots of technical questions have opinionated answers, that may still be valid and useful to an asker. This alone makes the site incredibly asker-unfriendly, for no apparent reason other than to keep questions strictly fact-based.  
    LikeLiked by 1 person  
    This is a great post. In my community, some people have a habit of linking http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html in response to below-par questions. I’d like to refer them to this post as a replacement, and in particular, the covenant — you’ve been kind enough to provide a #covenant anchor, but it points right under the subtitle for the covenant. Could you fix that?  
    Either way, thanks for this post!  
    LikeLike  
    Are you suggesting moving the anchor up very slightly or down to the covenant text itself? My main issue with the anchor is the way that the CSS obscures where it actually leads. You may want to just copy the bit you like most onto a dedicated page, but if you want to keep it to this page, I’ll see what I can do…  
    LikeLike  
    Educating people in how to solve their problem themselves is the most important thing, this will ultimately make the internet a better place. SO, was never my game I always preferred SF where, most of the asking players are from SO.  
    I cannot count the number of times that someone has posted a poor question, been asked in comments to show their config and logs (which may or may not require more hand holding), and then, they failed to actually read them, themselves. The answer is staring them in the face (or perhaps a quick search away).  
    I have tried to write informative posts based upon teaching scientific method, that show how to go about solving a problem. They are a largely, poorly received. Often an answer which says just ‘do ‘ wins.  
    This ultimately is the problem with SO and SE in general. It does not encourage the people who need to most, to think for themselves. Instead it encourages them to have someone else think for them.  
    No one who needs to ever reads anything.  
    I no longer play the SF game.  
    LikeLike  
    Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:  
     You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )  
     You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )  
     You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )  
     You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )  
    Connecting to %s  
     Notify me of new comments via email.  
     Notify me of new posts via email.  
     

  
      
      
    
  URL : https://codeblog.jonskeet.uk/2018/03/17/stack-overflow-culture/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website