  I work at GitHub, as a senior engineer. I’m not looking for a job. But I have been thinking about leadership and what I’ve appreciated most from various bosses over the years. Inspired by Chad Fowler’s “Who I want to hire”, I started noting who I want to work for, in terms of an ideal leader. 
   Before I share thoughts about my ideal leader, for context, a little about me… 
   I’m an experienced engineer. I do a lot of foundational architectural work and act as a technical advisor for my area of expertise: APIs and the ecosystem around them. I am someone who doesn’t need much supervision; my boss can point me in the general direction of a problem and consider it handled. I’m comfortable solving hard engineering problems, leading a team towards a ship, or communicating about a project both within the company and to the public. Or as one colleague said, I’m “just really good at getting shit done”. 
   Here are some characteristics that make for my ideal leader: 
   From my perspective, these are the things that matter. 
   If this describes you, I imagine your good example radiates out and cultivates a group that is supportive, motivated and committed. You make your people’s lives better, because quite simply, you give a damn about your people. 
   By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out. 
   Software developer, leader, speaker, amateur triathlete. Currently @github 
  
 URL : https://medium.com/@keavy/who-i-want-to-work-for-b04ce972c202?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website