  SaaS Startups  
    Jason Lemkin  
    As we’ve talked about before, the great thing about SaaS, is it compounds.  Once you have something, it builds on itself.  But it takes time.  It takes 7-10 years to build something real.  
    If you are reading this, you’re probably up for that 7+ year commitment, assuming you’re fortune enough to get there.  
    >> But what about your prospective co-founders?  
    Are you all sufficiently committed enough to make it in SaaS, over the extended term?  You guys can talk about it.  And say all the right things.  
    Here’s the thing: do you know for sure?  As Mark Suster recently wrote, the #1 thing founders privately tell him is they got this wrong.  Mark talks about getting vesting right, getting equity ratios right, etc. etc.  All good stuff.  
    So I’ve got a simple test for you.  For you and your co-founders in SaaS at least, do this with your stock:  
    Ok, what does this do?  Well, it will force you guys to have an honest conversation.  Because it’s perfectly aligned with the 7-10 year journey in SaaS.  With the fact that there’s no tornado, no viral explosion in SaaS.  There’s not going to be any Instagram insta-hit.  That’s there’s zero value in SaaS until you’ve at least built a real business, with real customers.  
    >> If your co-founders all agree to this, intuitively and quickly — including yourself, no exceptions — I’d argue you’re on the right path, as a team.  And if for some reason someone later then doesn’t work out, and steps off — all or most or at least enough of their equity will come back in the right ratio relative to the journey.  
    [Note the acceleration in acquisition won’t really matter too much — all this can and will be renegotiated in any acquisition.  But it doesn’t hurt and will make you feel better, that if for some reason it’s out of all of your hands — you’re no longer in charge of the journey, because you’ve been acquired — you at least have nominal protection then.]  
    But …  
    If you can’t all agree to this.  To take the modest risk inherent in this schedule, to the compounding, to the longer-term journey … Then it just isn’t going to work out, as a team.  
    >> In that case … Fix it now.  This simple test will likely ferret it out, if your team isn’t committed enough for SaaS.  
    Anyone that fails it should move from founder status to early employee, with commensurate economics.  
    Jason, do you recommend changing it if we’ve already vested some stock? How should this be applied 2-3 years into the journey if stock vesting was set up in the traditional way (4 years with 1 year cliff)?  
    Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *  
    Comment   
    Name *   
    Email *   
    Website   
     

  
      
      
    

  
    Post written by, Clayton Whitfield, Chief Customer Officer, SaaSOptics Sometimes in life, making ends meet is the only option. We’ve…  
    By Todd Gardner, Founder and Managing Director, SaaS Capital When we launched SaaS Capital in 2007, not only did we…  
    By Tim McCormick, CEO of SaaSOptics The importance of subscription renewals in overall business performance today has created opportunities for the…  
    
  URL : https://www.saastr.com/a-simple-commitment-test-for-you-and-your-co-founders/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website