  Foliovision  
    Making the web work for you  
    15 March  2018 / Alec Kinnear / 16 Comments   
    Apparently IBM has made USD $780 million building a payroll system for the Canadian Government which does not work.  
    The idea was to save money by eliminating jobs. Canada has about 260,000 public servants. Over 1200 people were working on payroll (accountants, bookkeepers and managers mainly with some IT guys thrown in to make it work). This is about half of one percent on payroll. Payroll is about one third the cost of accounting in our company. I'm unable to bring our accounting costs much below 3% of turnover on a sub-million dollar turnover despite strong efforts and automated software like Freshbooks.  
    I'm using headcount as a symbol of dollar figures for the Canadian government as in a service business like government or a software/IT company salary makes up over 70% of costs. It's not exact, but it provides pretty good reference numbers. Projecting these ratios onto Canada's federal government this would mean it's about twice as efficient as we've been able to become as a small business paying attention (we'd be at 1%). This is a ludicrously high on this kind of economy of scale. So the idea to reduce the head count was a good one. The target was 500 staff instead of 1200.  
    The mistake which was made was to try to stuff all the very diverse payment systems into a single system. It would have made more sense to categorise the type of payment systems and put like together with like. There would be a master reporting system on top of all the modules to deliver combined reports. The reporting system would be relatively easy to write if the ten or fifteen payment systems were well and simply made and storing data in an accessible way. You'd start by categorising the kinds of payroll, choosing one category, building one good payment system and then clone it out to the others.  
    IBM instead sold the Canadian government someone else's software (Oracle's Peoplesoft) on a sweetheart contract which did not require delivery of a working solution. Then IBM failed to successfully implement while taking payment all the way along.  
    Like a military contractor in the United States who is paying kickbacks (campaign contributions above board, foreign bank accounts below board) to the congressmen and women and senators who vote on their programs, IBM gets paid more for their failure.  
    It's not an accident or a one-off. IBM did something similar to Australia:  
    The Australian state of Queensland scrapped a similar project after an initial contract went off the rails and ended up costing the government around A$1 billion ($772 million) to fix. A public inquiry mostly blamed government officials, but determined IBM shouldn’t have been chosen for the job.  
    It shouldn't be this difficult for governments to resolve failed contracts. There is no reason for private enterprise to profit from failed public projects or inadequate estimates.  
    In cases like this in the past, the Canadian Government would just be able to tell IBM to deliver the goods as promised or IBM would be banned from doing business in Canada - effectively frozen. Under NAFTA and similar trade pacts, governments have lost all leverage and these sweetheart deals continue to be pushed through.  
    Why should the Canadian taxpayer foot the bills for corrupt contracts with devious suppliers? The answer is we should not. Companies should know that when they contract to provide public services they will be held accountable.  
    IBM is a hollow shell of what it once was. IBM treated its own workers horribly, when in 1993 they initially off-shored what was the world's most capable software and engineering workforce. One of IBM's major destinations after blowing up their US workforce was Bratislava. Some of IBM's business has moved on from Bratislava now as the environment is not sufficiently low cost any more. From insiders here, I had the chance to learn how IBM's service business really works.  
    An IBM team in Bratislava is an account manager who is an a group of ten with an account director above them. I.e. there are only two people with whom you would have contact. Slovaks are very talented at mid-level service jobs: responsible and polite if not particularly fast-moving. The general level of foreign language learning is high as as in addition to reasonable natural talent, Slovaks are forced to communicate with the outside world in any other language except their own. So far, so good.  
    The tech credentials of these software "experts" were pretty low. Language skills was the bigger issue along with basic computer literacy (ability to send emails and manage a CRM). An HR recruiter who worked for IBM and I had a running joke about what it took to get hired at IBM Slovakia. It was just three yeses to the following questions.  
    Yet if these people or their friends were the only ones who had contact with your data, no issues at all. Slovaks, particularly in the service industry, are astonishingly honest.1  
    The technical work was not kept within Slovakia at all. It was sent out to boiler rooms in India with extremely low skilled specialists and very high turnover. Your little service job might have to be done three or four times before it passed quality control and your "team leader" reported back to you. The teams were always rotating and there was no continuity on the work on any given project. If I were an IBM customer, I'd be very worried about my data transferred between so many jurisdictions and experts. It only takes one weak in the chain for your private business data to leak into the wrong hands.  
    In exchange, companies were paying premium development rates - hundreds of dollars an hour. IBM were effectively selling you $4/hour developers at premium prices. A company could hire software customisation engineers on hourly remuneration with ten times the soft skills and five times the hard skills for one third the hourly rate IBM charges.  
    Now Canada is paying for IBM's irresponsibility as an employer, a supplier and a corporate citizen.  
    Canada would have done far better to hire Canadian Mike McDerment to build their payroll system from scratch. Mike has built two accounting systems which work more or less flawlessly: Freshbooks One (what we use) and Freshbooks Two (what Freshbooks are selling now). Freshbooks practices accountability. Once when Freshbooks servers went down for about eight hours, Mike gave everyone affected (about half their customers) a free month of service. I thought that was crazy over-compensation (and that's from someone who refunded $6000 to a single client for a project which didn't go according to plan).  
    My only recommendation to someone thinking of buying the IBM brand. Just don't. IBM doesn't produce what they are selling, offer low quality services at high prices and seek to sign customers up to dishonest contracts. In addition, IBM treats its employees very poorly (as contractors where possible), has hollowed out its home economies (North America). As coup de grace, IBM has stolen nearly a billion dollars from both Canada and Australia on failed payroll projects.  
    If this is how IBM treats its staff and governments, why would IBM treat your small business any differently?  
    Historically Slovakia gets lumped with Eastern Europe in popular perception - Slovakia is nothing like Romania, the Ukraine, Albania or even Poland in turning out petty criminals or promiscuous online fraudsters. Not to forget Western Europe, France has a far more unhealthy work culture and fraud at work and as a way of living is far more acceptable than in Slovakia. Germany and Austria tend to value probity far more highly than the Mediterranean countries. Hundreds of years of late Roman Empire corruption left an undying footprint. ↩︎  
    Alec has been helping businesses succeed online since 2000. Alec is an SEM expert with a background in advertising, as a former Head of Television for Grey Moscow and Senior Television Producer for Bates, Saatchi and Saatchi Russia.  
    Categories: Business, IT Tags: ibm, software  
    I’ve heard stories about this software ruining people’s lives, because they weren’t getting paid for their work. Some people had to take loans and max out their credit cards to make ends meet, because their company had software issues (with IBM software)!  
    And here we thought Slovakia had problems with failed IT projects commissioned by the government.  
    This is an interesting narrative. However it cannot be the only one. Let us explore some alternatives and side notes.   
    Who was responsible for picking IBM?
Are they still working for the CA gov?
Have they passed the hot potato to someone else?
How were their technical skills and soft skills evaluated?
Did they receive any donations for the contract?
Where are the safety clauses in the contract?
Is IBM the only benefactor of this contract?
Any political implications?  
    Remember that Gov. point person also bears a lot of the responsibility for shopping for IT services in a magazine or trough their business network.   
    If IBM has been so ineffective at delivering services there would be more cases like this and it would ultimately hurt their bottom line. If this was wide spread practice across their business units. Maybe their business as a whole is insulated by the other better performing parts of it’s corporation.   
    It seems to me that these “Governments” should investigate anyone who touched these contracts.  
    To the widespread corruption present in Eastern Europe. It does exist. However this article goes to show that corruption is present at a larger scale in some of the “most” developed nations on earth.  
    Can you please direct me to the data that made you write this in the footnotes?   
    “Slovakia is nothing like Romania, the Ukraine, Albania or even Poland in turning out petty criminals or promiscuous online fraudsters”  
    The IBM of old had both brilliant and horrid software offerings. Both were marketed with the same assurance that IBM stood behind its software.  
    I remember when a Buffalo bank installed JES3 in the ’70s and the entire mainframe system went down. The bank was shut down. Most fortuitously all of Buffalo was shut down by a snow storm for several days; so nobody noticed that the bank was shut down.   
    IBM flew in engineers and provided them snowmobiles to get to the bank and got it fixed before the customers would notice.  
    IBM has success over hundreds of projects every year and all the major breakthroughs including blockchain, quantum computing, watson health, cognitive computing and thr list goes on and on. one or two failures and these people go crazy!!! thr whole story starts with a clear negative vibe. Get a life man !!!  
    Interesting.  
    http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/public-health-it-system-defective-way-over-budget-says-b-c-ag-1.3189947  
    Seems like IBM services is laying waste across Canada.  
    I recently decided to test out IBM Cloud Services. Big mistake.   
    They are now trying to screw me out of $350.  All according to terms that are listed nowhere on their website, terms  which I never agreed to.  
    The two biggest players in cloud services right now are Amazon AWS & Google Cloud. Both allow you to provision a server and bill you hourly only while the server is running. IBM appears at face value to offer the very same service.   
    The actual provisioning page quotes you an estimated cost per hour, with a footnote that says the actual cost is based on “actual usage.” I reasonably take this to mean that the charges are variable, and related to actual usage. Nothing indicates otherwise.   
    Well, a short time later I receive a bill for $350.  
    They are claiming the terms for a virtual public instances are a fixed cost, billed hourly, and completely unrelated to actual usage. I went through every peice of information on their website objectively to see whether I missed something and went through their 20 page Cloud Services Agreement with a fine tooth comb. Those terms are mentioned nowhere.   
    Soon afterwards, I tested out Google Cloud, and they provide $300 free credit with no restrictions on provisioning, you can use it towards an instance with 8 vCPU’s & 52 GB of RAM. I’ve only used $15 of that credit after a couple of weeks. (I am not setting up a production enviroment.)  
    Based upoin my experience I completely agree with what you are saying. If not crooks, they are completely incompetent. Not what I expected from such a well known company.  
    At least IBM is ahead in the computer race  and is all ready into graphene while Intel is not yet .  
    Same story with IBM in Slovenia (not Slovakia). IBM commissioned to build national tax system. Gets paid in tens of M. Fails to deliver.  
    this article would be better without the gratuitous national/racial stereotyping  
    I’ve lived and worked in most of these places. Life in foreign countries can be very different. Of course no general characteristic necessarily applies to any given individual. Still I’m very glad to have to run a business in Slovakia though and not in France. Even though in cultural terms, personally I’d prefer to go home in the evening to Bordeaux. Making a profit without breaking the law is much harder in France.  
    I’ve worked on IBM teams as a consultant. They have some very smart, talented people. They also have some poor managers and some salespeople who promise too much.  They have advanced products and also second rate/past their prime products. There is great infrastructure but also slow, painful bureaucracy.  
    So if you are a customer you need to go beyond the brand name, be smart about choosing products and services, agree on a sensible contract, and actively and wisely manage the engagement to ensure good delivery.  The history of IT megaprojects is littered with mega failures.  
    Thank you for your comments both here and at Hacker News and Reddit.  
    The situation is a lot more serious than I initially thought when I started this piece a couple of a. IBM has repeatedly savaged governments around the world for sums up and over $1 billion dollars for systems which don’t work and have to simply be discarded. Winning megaprojects with low initial bids and then turning a $20 million project into a billion dollar con of the client appears to be an artform at IBM. Governments all over the world have suffered, tax payers have paid for senior IBM bonuses. Ordinary citizens have gone six months or more without their paycheques. The behaviour outlined below appears to be IBM policy and not an accident.  
    This slightly flippant article is not an adequate response. This very grave situation cries out for a deep investigative long form feature. The governments of Canada and Australia and Pennsylvania (at least) probably have a case of deliberate entrapment and malicious practices.  
    More than a story it seems a rant by someone who is out to salvage ibm. Seems like a personal vendetta. None of the above pointers are validated. Unfortunately internet today works this way only. Anyone can post anything with absolutely no credibility.
There are questions abt CA govt frauds as well but with no answers so i dont c any logic in this one aided story  
    Sukant, the story above contains many links to existing cases around the world. What’s personal about this story is that these are our taxpayer dollars. IBM are openly stealing from Canadian, Australian and American taxpayers. We are the ones footing the bill for IBM’s crafty method of lowballing a project, failing to deliver, expanding the scope and finally threatening the bureaucrats involved with public shaming and to walk away from the project in exchange for a non-responsibility signature. Each case follows the same pattern.  
    This has happened in Canada, Australia and Pennsylvania as far as I know. According to Luka, there is a similar case in Slovenia. IBM knew that eventually the world would catch up to them. Most of the senior IBMers involved have already collected their multi-million dollar bonuses and some have probably even moved on from IBM.  
    This is a case of the private sector robbing the public sector. It’s time for a full time investigative journalist to go out and find out who inside IBM built this system of public fraud and who profited. Sadly there aren’t many full time investigative journalists left at all and even fewer whose publishers are not indirectly on the IBM payroll (via advertising).  
    Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *  
    Comment   
     Notify me of followup comments via e-mail.  
    You can click here to Subscribe without commenting  
    Name *   
    Email *   
    Website   
     

  
      
    
Username
  
    
Password
  
     Remember Me  
    

  
    
  URL : https://foliovision.com/2018/03/why-not-buy-ibm?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website