  The best product doesn't always win. The one everyone uses wins. Later we all 
tell ourselves a story about why and how that product was really the best all 
along in an impressive display of 
survivorship bias. 
In fact, the history of technology is littered with quantitatively superior 
products that lost in the marketplace because they weren't well timed, well 
marketed, or well supported: VHS vs Betamax. Gasoline vs 
Electric. 
English vs Esperanto. Metric vs Imperial.   
    "Habit and user expectation remains a stronger moat than people appreciate." 
- Ben Thompson  
    Winning products tend to continue to win until major disruption or 
mismanagement. The reason for that is simple: everyone else has to 
conform 
before they can compete. You become the de facto standard against which other 
things are measured. It is hard to differentiate for the better when people 
have already collectively endorsed a fiction that the best solution has 
already been found (and, what luck, it's the one that won). Society is a 
dynamic part of product/market fit, and once a large number of humans have 
learned come to expect a certain behavior, there just isn't enough value in 
learning a new system even if it is better. This isn't just about switching 
costs between products but rather more fundamentally about interaction 
paradigms. Do you really 
think 
an app garden is the apex of all possible phone 
UIs? Is a vertical scrolling feed really the best way to stay up to date on 
friends? Does the QWERTY arrangement on a keyboard make any sense today?  
    This is the reason companies focus so much on growth. It isn't just that growth 
signifies a fit with a market. But rather because growth actually makes the 
market fit stronger. Even when the product doesn't involve network effects 
directly it still benefits from the habits and expectations of the population 
at large that accompany growth.  
    
  URL : http://boz.com/articles/growth.html?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website