  Before I got into VC, I spent a decade at Morgan Stanley covering both the incumbent Retail brands and new eCommerce names. It was there that I became fascinated with Retail, Beauty and Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) and developed a deep appreciation for the power of brand.  
    Earlier this week I announced Lightspeed’s investment in Brandable, which represents where I think CPG companies are heading. Brandable joins other innovative CPG companies in Lightspeed’s portfolio including Daily Harvest, Hungry Root, The Honest Company and Goop. We believe in this space and will continue to invest in it.  
    CPG is a sector ripe for disruption that can ultimately be broken down into three key areas: 1) what the consumer wants now, 2) what incumbents are doing poorly, and 3) what new entrants are doing well.  
    Consumers  
    Incumbents  
    New entrants  
    These are the things that I think about as an investor when talking to founders and companies in the CPG space. If you believe your company is reinventing CPG, I’d love to hear from you. The best way to contact me is on email: nquinn@lsvp.com.  
    ☞ To hear more of my thoughts in the future, follow me on Twitter  
    ☞ If you liked this post, Please “clap” to help to promote this piece to others or let me know your thoughts in the comments  
    From a quick cheer to a standing ovation, clap to show how much you enjoyed this story.  
    Investor at Lightspeed, Stanford alum, Former Consumer Analyst at Morgan Stanley and British 100m sprinter  
    Lightspeed is an early stage VC firm focused on accelerating disruptive innovations and trends in the enterprise and consumer sectors. Lightspeed has backed 300+ companies globally in the past two decades including Snap, Honest Co., GIPHY, Nest, Nutanix, AppDynamics and MuleSoft.  
    
  URL : https://medium.com/lightspeed-venture-partners/consumer-packaged-goods-are-ripe-for-disruption-42639229a0b5?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website