  Netflix kick started the online culture deck trend by posting their unique company culture deck online, as a means of communicating their culture to new and current employees, customers and partners. I don’t believe that Reed Hastings ever imagined how this 125 page document would resonate with the broader internet community — as of this writing this deck has been viewed over 17m times on Sildeshare and Sheryl Sandberg called it “probably the most important document ever to come out of the valley”.  
    There is no simple formula for creating great company culture, and you definitely can’t copy another company’s culture, but you can learn from how other companies have created a meaningful and effective culture deck.  
    Highlights  
    ‍ — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — -  
    Netflix — The BIG DADDY of culture decks  
    Netflix Culture: Freedom & Responsibility  
    Seek Excellence: Our culture focuses on helping us achieve excellence  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Spotify: building a strong engineering culture  
    Culture is the stuff people do without noticing  
    If vision is where you are going, culture is what makes sure you can get there  
    A good culture isn’t the same thing as a good business though  
    Culture enables success but it does not cause success  
    What makes a good engineering culture  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Valve employee handbook  
    Dedicated to the families of all Valve employees. Thank you for helping us make such an incredible place.  
    This book isn’t about fringe benefits or how to set up your workstation or where to find source code. Valve works in ways that might seem counterintuitive at first. This handbook is about the choices you’re going to be making and how to think about them. Mainly, it’s about how not to freak out now that you’re here.  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Zappos Culture Deck  
    At Zappos our 10 Core Values are more than just words, they’re a way of life. We know that companies with a strong culture and a higher purpose perform better in the long run. As we continue to grow, we strive to ensure that our culture remains alive and well.  
    Core values  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Hootsuite’s Manifesto: Building a Social Revolution  
    Our vision is to revolutionize the customer journey via social  
    Our mission is to empower organizations to turn messages into meaningful relationships  
    Our culture: a passionate, egoless team having fun building something bigger than itself  
    Our team is:  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    How GitHub Used to Work  
    We want to get the best work from our employees. That happens when they are happy, fresh and creative.  
    Buffer culture 0.6 (With a change to Be a No Ego Doer)  
    Powered by happiness  
    Culture is always a work in progress  
    Culture: what gives Buffer the best chance for progress of the product, happiness of users and team, and personal growth while part of the journey?  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Hubspot Culture Code: Creating A Lovable Company  
    This document is part manifesto and part employee handbook. It’s part who we are and part who we aspire to be.  
    Culture is a set of shared beliefs, values and practices  
    Culture doesn’t just help attract amazing people, it amplifies their abilities and helps them do their best work  
    Culture happens, whether planned or not  
    Hubspot’s culture code is the operating system that powers the company  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    The Asana Culture Code  
    A team of peers on a bold mission to help humanity thrive by enabling all teams to work together effortlessly  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Code as Craft: Building a Strong Engineering Culture at Etsy  
    Culture isn’t just one aspect of the game… it is the game  
    A strong culture can overcome almost any set of poor technical decisions. A weak culture can’t be saved by using the best technology. Culture is also what brings people to your company. It beats everything else.  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    The little book of Ideo  
    We wrote this to give you a sense of IDEO’s culture — the ties that bind us together as coworkers and as people. These are the values that get us there.  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    eShares Culture Deck  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Runway East  
    These are our values — we give them to every new employee on day one, and we ask our members to always hold us to them.  
    The Motley Fool Culture Code  
    ‍  
    LinkedIn’s Culture Transformation  
    It’s who we are and who we aspire to be  
    Our culture is the collective personality of our organization  
    Handy Culture Deck  
    Our mission is to deliver an amazing service experience to everyone by consistently delighting and empowering people around the world  
    The 8 things we believe at Handy  
    ‍  
    Dell #CultureCode: What we believe. How we work. How we lead  
    Our culture matters in how we run the business, how we go to market, and how we lead each other. It describes what we care about, the things in which we’re willing to invest and the rules that define us as a team. Our culture is the foundation of success for Dell Technologies.  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Soundstripe Culture Deck 2017  
    Our mission is to keep creatives creating  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍Patreon Culture Deck  
    We have two missions  
    We are Ometrians  
    Our mission is to be the brain that powers all communication between retailers and their customers  
    ‍  
    Nordstrom Technology Culture Deck  
    We have one rule: Use good judgement in all situations  
    We want to hold true to our history, but we think it’s time to explicitly share what we think differentiates our Technology team compared to other tech companies  
    Our culture is a differentiator… It’s important because it meets our #1 priority: customer service!  
    NORDNA — Creating the most inspiring workplace where we enable talented people to provide amazing customer experiences  
    We are skilled, passionate action-oriented people who foster a culture to differentiate ourselves  
    Skimlinks Culture Book  
    #Skimlove  
    ‍  
    GoDaddy Culture Deck  
    VISION: We will radically shift the global economy toward small business by empowering people to easily start, confidently grow and successfully run their own ventures.  
    We can change the world  
    Facebook Little Red Book  
    ‍  
    Mindvalley Culture Deck  
    We are here because of our why  
    We really like personality  
    We are Brule Breakers  
    We operate by a code. An awesome code.  
    We celebrate our awesomeness weekly  
    Happiness is the new productivity  
    Our personal growth matters as much as our customers  
    We work in playgrounds  
    We:  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    360 Incentives Culture Year Book  
    Our commitments for:  
    Values:  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Acceleration Partners Culture Deck  
    Core values:  
    Operating principles  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍Big Space Ship Culture Deck  
    The 4 principles  
    To avoid robot speak, follow these simple rules  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍Nanigans Culture Deck  
    People at Nanigans  
    Shared experiences at Nanigans  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    DoSomething Culture Deck  
    11 reasons to work at DoSomething  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    ‍  
    Possible Culture Deck  
    In everything we do we believe it’s possible to deliver high=quality low-cost healthcare to the world’s poor  
    ‍  
    ‍We will continue to update this list of company culture decks, so if you have a deck, manifesto or handbook that you would like to add to our resources page and this blog, drop us a line.  
    CULTURE DECKS DECODED  
    I will be publishing Culture Decks Decoded later this month. As the name suggests Culture Decks Decoded decodes how companies leverage their culture decks. You can download a preview here.  
    In this book I analyse how Netflix, LinkedIn, Hubspot, Hootsuite, Valve and Patreon, amongst others, use their culture decks to:  
    During my interviews and conversations with hundreds of founders and CEOs about their culture and one of the areas I explored during these interviews was how they had gone about creating their company’s culture decks. There are two main reasons why culture decks are hard to do: firstly, there are lots of culture decks available online but no overarching document that explains what an effective culture deck is, and what it should cover; and second, that very few people have the time to research all of the different decks to learn how others have structured and written theirs. I have written *Culture Decks Decoded* to solve both these problems.  
    I am in the final stages of the book cover and interior design at the moment and while that process is underway I thought I would share a (rough) version.  
    Also check out the CultureGene culture resource, which is a collection of over 150 of the best blogs, podcasts, videos, decks and books about company culture.  
    From a quick cheer to a standing ovation, clap to show how much you enjoyed this story.  
    Author & Founder @ www.CultureGene.ai  
    Medium's largest publication for makers. Subscribe to receive our top stories here → https://goo.gl/zHcLJi  
    
  URL : https://medium.com/swlh/the-very-best-company-culture-decks-on-the-web-5a3de60c0bb9?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website