  
GitHub icon
LinkedIn icon
Twitter icon
  
    its@davemart.in  
    Today marks 12 full months that I’ve been working on a side project called Howdy.  
      
    In that time I’ve:  
    I’m happy with the tech stack that I have now and the project is probably 90% complete, but I’m finding it extremely hard to finish.  
    In The War of Art and Turning Pro, Steven Pressfield talks about “The Resistance” that keeps us from doing our work.   
    If you’re a maker and you’ve yet to read these two books, do yourself a favor and buy them today.  
    Pressfield says:  
    The danger is greatest when the finish line is in sight. At this point, Resistance knows that we’re about to beat it. It hits the panic button. It marshals one last assault and slams us with everything it’s got.  
    My brain is literally trying to convince me to quit and to start working on “this other exciting new project”.   
    The ever so quiet whispers in my head are saying:  
    And even though I know that these are all fabricated to get me to stop, the temptation to actually stop is legit.  
    I am very tempted to stop.  
    Pressfield says:  
    The more important a call or action is to our soul’s evolution, the more Resistance we’ll feel towards pursuing it.  
    As tempting as it is to call it quits, I honestly think my heart will break if I don’t finish this project. I can think back to so many moments where I still had optimism, hope, and excitement for this project. Where did all of that excitement go? Where is the hope now? How can I get it back?  
    Massive props to anyone who is able to launch a side project and stick with it for a year or more.  
    Optimism, hope, and excitement be damned…   
    I’m not giving up on this one.   
    The resistance is real, but so is my aspiration to have dogged determination!  
    I will launch this project. ?  
    Wish me luck.  
    
  URL : http://davemart.in/resistance/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website