  
There's something I once read in an article which I can't find any more.  
It was something by a really young CEO of some unicorn startup type 
company, and it said things that people really did not like.  It was the 
sort of thing that you should never say about other people.  Actually, 
more to the point, it was the sort of thing you should never 
think about other people, but this person obviously failed at 
both.  People gasped at the audacity of talking about it and kind of 
missed the fact that ... yes, people DO think that way.  Even now.
  
    
Am I talking about racism?  No.  Sexism?  No.
  
    
This particular example was about older folks in tech.
  
    
As I remember it, the story goes like this: you're supposed to get into 
this business, get your money, and get out, meaning retire.  You 
sell all your stuff and travel the world and write posts on Medium.
You know, the whole
pyramid
thing, right?
  
    
Therefore, if you are still here, and are visibly old, something must be 
going on.  They seem to boil it down to two things.
  
    
The first possibility is that the person is a badass.  They are one of 
those people who already made their fortune and only hangs around at the 
job because they feel like it.  They don't have to be there.
  
    
The other possibility is that the person is the exact opposite of a 
badass, and has managed to not cash out despite being in the biz for a 
very long time.  They've made no money, may be living paycheck to 
paycheck, and really need the job.  Basically, the fact they're not "at 
the top" despite their age means they are crap.
  
    
Both of these are so wrong it's not even funny... but you know there are 
people who honestly believe this, who operate on those principles, and 
apply them to the folks they interview, hire, promote, and yes, fire.
  
    
Anyone remember this post or news story?  I've been trying to find it.
  
    
If you haven't put it together yet, the people who think that way have 
basically managed to eliminate any chance of a middle ground for anyone 
who isn't sufficiently young in their opinion.  If you're not absolutely 
amazing all the time, you must be garbage, since why else are you still 
here?
  
    
I'm sorry to say this is not hypothetical.  A friend in his 50s told me 
a tale not too long ago which came from a conversation he was having 
with his manager.  In short, the manager said something I still find 
amazing:
  
    
  
    
In those five words, the manager managed to say so many things.  First, 
the worker is deemed "old".  Then, following from that, why can't they 
afford to quit?  Why haven't they gone off to sail the world?  What is 
their major malfunction which makes them unable to hit the jackpot?  
With all of the years they have put into this career of theirs, how have 
they managed to suck?
  
    
Let me be clear: this was not an extract from a longer sentence between 
two friends, like "Since you have all that cash, why are you still 
working".  It was a straightforward antagonistic question by a manager 
who's too stupid to know that such things make the company lawyers
nervous because discrimination lawsuits have been started over less.
  
    
Also, my friend does not suck.  He's going to go on to another place and 
actually succeed there, at which point anyone who's been paying 
attention will realize the problem was 
the company
all along.
  
    
If you want a healthy team, you're going to need a mix of people.  
Cutting off entire segments of the population from your company's 
ranks just because you don't understand their value only hurts 
yourself.
  
    
Believe it or not, they teach you this in high school economics classes.
Public high school classes, at that.
  
    
Discrimination doesn't pay.
  
    
  URL : http://rachelbythebay.com/w/2018/12/29/age/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website