  Designer/Consultant helping startups validate faster and get more leads using great proper websites  
    Looking at websites from bigger companies is EXTREMELY biased, be careful!  
    In this article, I will teach you why you shouldn’t look at most sites from bigger companies, what your website should include and how to find great reference for your website.  
    You see, these companies are more well-known in their niche, they don’t need to explain everything perfectly and use their website to get all the leads which is the exact opposite of what you might need right now.  
      
    Here are a few reasons why “bad” websites still work with bigger companies:  
      
    Unfortunately, if you are not a big company or have a ton of funding on your belt, none of this will work :(  
    Stay tuned, I’ll teach you how to do this later on in this article! OH...and a Bonus with a free email course to help you get a great Landing page in 5 steps (even without design skills).  
      
    Although some of these are very well designed, they are not very clear about how the product works and addressing objections potential customers might have.   
    You REALLY shouldn't follow their example.  
    This hardly explains anything about what Slack is, how it works and how valuable it is, in fact, this is nearly their entire landing page if you add some logos below it.  
    They can get away with this because a ton of people already know Slack and this page just serves as a simple signup form.  
    What?  
    Look at that headline? Did you understand anything of what they do!?  
    If you do this you will get 90+ % bounce rate and most people won't bother to continue browsing below this. Your chance to convert a customer is gone...  
      
    Don't use "We are the #1 at X thing", especially at the beginning.   
    I don't believe anyone can pull this headline off, it just sounds like bs to the more serious potential customers!  
    Look at all this real estate waisted not explaining the value of their solution and defining the right expectations, it's one of the biggest mistakes you can make.  
    However, you should mention throughout the page if you won any awards (or something similar) since it's other people saying your product is #1, not yourself (aka real social proof).  
      
    Want a page like this? I can help you achieve this starting at €299 ($350), more info here  
      
      
    I recommend lapa.ninja since it has a bunch of categories that you can select online the other unsorted websites (or with useless filters).  
    How to do it right:  
      
      
      
    ? Pro-tip:  
    Look at websites from companies you don’t know and see if you can understand what they do. If it was clear to you try to figure out why and what part made you understand the value they were offering and then implement it in your own website.  
      
      
      
      
      
    Slack in Aug, 2014  
      
    See! Might not look nearly as clean or pretty but back then they made an effort to explain how Slack can increase a team's productivity.  
    Let’s talk about slack again, take a look at this more detailed explanation on how slack works and how it’s better, unlike nowadays, they couldn’t get away without it!  
    How to do it right:  
      
    Let's look at Privacy.com for example...  
      
    If people upvote it is because they understood the value they were offering and were extra excited about promoting it.  
    Warning: Ignore launches from big companies or big audiences they can simply use that to get upvotes. The “New and Upcoming” type of thing is the ideal reference for you!  
      
      
      
      
      
      
    ___________________________________  
      
    ? Bonus - Free email course  
    I have a 100% free email course to help come up with a page like this in 5 steps (even without Design skills of course)  
      
    ___________________________________  
      
    ? New - Landing pages for Developers  
    Validating a product can be hard and it can be all sorts of problems when the landing page doesn’t explain it properly, I can help you with that!  
       
    I help Developers and Entrepreneurs validate their products with better landing pages, click here to learn more  
      
    Here’s how you can get yours!!  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
    
  
    
      Learn from the founders behind hundreds of profitable online businesses, and connect with others who are starting and growing their own companies.
      
    
  URL : https://www.indiehackers.com/@pedrocortes/011a186c95?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website