  
          
        POSTS
        
    tldr: It reveals room for improvement.  
    After going live on the Google Play Store, I wrote this post about my app Hacker News Later written in Kotlin for Android. In it I explained the motivation behind the project as a way to deal with my addiction to Hacker News, and to skim reading. I often read without focus, and in reality read very little when I fall into this bad habit.  
    (Are you interested in picking up Kotlin? Check out Kotlin Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide)  
    In the most meta way, the post shot up to the front page of Hacker News and made it to the third slot from the top garnering 315 points and 109 comments. Within a week after the post, the blog received over 17,000 sessions, going from zero the day before.  
    The write up was a success, and still offers value beyond telling people about the app, but how did this impact the number of installs and account signups? Within a day, I got about 100 installs, and the number has hovered slightly above that for Final installs on active devices today, which Google defines as number of Android devices that have been active in the previous 30 days that your app is installed on.  
    Yet in the past week, most people who downloaded the app uninstalled it shortly thereafter. This confirmed my suspicion on what it would be like to use this app in practice. The concept of only emailing yourself links is interesting, but the app did not give you any other indication beyond the title to decide on whether you should read the item later.  
    I’d like for the adage of not judging a book by its cover to apply while using this app, but here, we can’t even peek into what the contents may entail.  
    On more than one occasion, either through conversation, from seeing comments on HN, or even on the post itself, people remark on how valuable the comments are and how it could be used as a litmus test on whether the original content is worth reading. With that, I knew integrating comments would be my next feature.  
    Before starting, I had an idea on how I might actually implement this for Android, but because this must be a common situation, I decided to Google to see how others have done it.  
    Rather quickly in my search, I found an article by Pedro Carrillo on Creating a comment section. In it, he relies on Lisa Wray’s Groupie Project to handle much of the heavy lifting.  
    You can see my work involved in implementing the comments in the video below. I apologize for the music choice – it seemed like a great idea late at night when browsing through the free music library on YouTube.  
    Here is the finished product.




  
    The update is currently live on the Play Store.  
    Thank you for subscribing!  
    
  URL : https://hackernewslater.com/posts/post-launch-front-page-hn/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website