  CEOs wear several hats — strategic, operational, financial. In One On One, Ben Horowitz makes a profound statement: “Perhaps the CEO’s most important operational responsibility is designing and implementing the communication architecture for her company.”  
    My goal for this post is to dig deeper into the communication architecture that Ben refers to: why it matters in the first place, and what its constituent components are. (Ben — if you read this, would love your thoughts on whether I’m missing something!)  
    A good communication architecture enables information to flow across the company (up and down, side to side) without impediment. It ensures that every person understands the organization’s strategy and priorities (and their own role in it); that people can easily access the information they need to do their job well; that people understand how to make and communicate decisions; problems are surfaced to leaders efficiently.  
    In other words, the communication architecture is foundational to how a company operates, and it’s the responsibility of the CEO to put one into place. Therefore, it’s better if the CEO makes explicit choices about its design, instead of ending up with a sub-optimal design because of inertia or decision paralysis.  
    An organization’s communication architecture consists of several components. The choices the CEO makes for each of these elements, taken together, define its communication architecture. Some are perennial and evergreen; I have grouped the others by cadence, that is, how regularly they occur. I have also articulated the choices that the CEO needs to make around each element.  
    Evergreen  
    Daily, weekly or fortnightly cadence  
    Monthly, quarterly or annual cadence  
    I hope this gives you a good sense of the choices you need to make as CEO around each element of your company’s communication architecture. However, it’s critical that you revisit your choices regularly (at least annually) to ensure they are still optimal for where the company is. As Ben says, there is nothing more important that you can do operationally as a CEO.  
    PS: Thanks to Shariq Rizvi for pointing out the need for retros in this list.  
    From a quick cheer to a standing ovation, clap to show how much you enjoyed this story.  
    curious optimist. quizbowl coach. dad and husband. caviar lead @ square. previously facebook and google.  
    
  URL : https://medium.com/@gokulrajaram/designing-a-communication-architecture-the-ceos-most-important-operational-responsibility-28937bd291e8?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website