  My most favorite interview question I've come across yet was "You type 'google.com' into a browser address bar and hit <Enter>, what happens afterwards?"  
    Someone could talk for days on end trying to answer that with some form of completeness. How deep will they go? Strictly for fun, I'm going to put my answer here. When I was asked this in an actual interview, I rambled on for a good 10 minutes before they stopped me. And then I kept remembering things I forgot to include even after the interview finished.  
    I'm going to keep this formatted as a wall of text because that's how it felt to answer this question in conversation.  
    The browser is going to analyze the input. Usually if it has a ".com" it won't think you're typing search terms. And once it decides it must be a URL, it'll check that it has a scheme, if not, it'll add "http://" to the beginning. And since you didn't specify a number of HTTP protocol features, it'll assume defaults, like port 80, GET method and no basic auth.  
    Then it'll create an HTTP request and send that. I'm not confident in my low level networking knowledge but if I was I'd say something about the MAC address, TCP packet transfers, dropped packet handling. But anyway, a "google.com" DNS lookup will happen, and if it's not already cached a DNS service will reply with a list of IP addresses, because "google.com" doesn't just have a single IP address. Browsers will pick the first one by default I believe. Not sure if they're regional or how the list works, but I know it's there.  
    So the HTTP request jumps from node to node until it gets to the IP address of  google.com's load balancer. It wouldn't last long, Google would respond that you need to be using HTTPS - assuming with a 301 permanent redirect. So it would go all the way back to your browser, the browser would change the scheme to HTTPS, use the default 443 port and resend. This time the TLS handshake would take place between the load balancer and the browser client. Not 100% on how that works but I know the request would tell Google what protocols it supports (TLS 1.0, 1.1, 1.2) and Google would respond with "Let's use 1.2". Then the request gets sent with TLS encryption.  
    I think the next thing Google would do is put it through web application firewall rules on its load balancer to see if it's a malicious request. When it passes, the secure connection has probably been terminated (because PCI-DSS regulations say you don't need to encrypt internal traffic) and the request would get assigned to a pool in their CDN, and the google-side cached homepage will be returned in an HTTP response. Probably pre-gzipped.  
    Google's response header would be read by the browser, cached according to the response header caching policy, then the body would be un-gzipped. And because it's google it's probably ultra-optimized: minified, likely a lot of pre-rendered content, inlined CSS, JavaScript and images to reduce network requests and the time-to-first-render. But that request will trigger a cascade of other requests, all concurrent because it should be running HTTP/2. While those requests are being made, JavaScript would be parsed, probably not blocking because they used the defer attribute on their tags - or async, I never did read about what those did individually.  
    But the browser has probably already rendered the search box and is working on the toolbar at the top, which is going to take some extra network requests - I probably already have a cookie or maybe local storage with an OAuth token - or maybe I'm using Chrome and it already knows who I am, and that request with auth gets sent to their Google+ API that tells the Google search page application who I am.  
    Another request would be sent to get my avatar image. At this point they've already browser-sniffed to see if I wasn't using Chrome, in which case they would have popped-in a tooltip to tell me that Chrome is awesome and I should be using that instead of anything else.  
    I think it would quiet down at that point. All taking place in a fraction of a second.  
      
    In a formally structured answer, you'd probably reference the OSI Model, which I know of but am not well versed in. After looking it up, I take it network layering maps like this:  
      
      
    Above is a file comparison of the IE 11 and Chrome responses - both logged out.  
      
    That pic above is the first screenshot Chrome will give you.  
    You know what? Maybe it's not that great of an interview question for a developer since the answer has so much networking involved. It's the format of the question I like, something open ended, that includes some guessing. That gives the interviewer the opportunity to follow up with questions like "How do you think TLS is established?" to see how the candidate thinks, see how creative they are, see what their limit is (how patient?).  
    What's your favorite interview question?  
      
    

 AntonFrattaroli
        
  
    You could go on for much longer if you also talk about hardware interrupts from the keyboard, and the handling of the WM_KEYDOWN window messages. That is, when you type "google.com" on the keyboard, where do those key presses go? How does the computer read and process them?   
    For every abstraction layer, there's always a deeper layer that you could explain in more detail. :)   
    That is, when you type "google.com" on the keyboard, where do those key presses go? How does the computer read and process them?   
    welp, guess know what rabbithole I'm falling down next  
    As an addition, if you get into the google internal infrastructure, with their multi-layered DNS LB and service LB and front-end proxies you can talk for a few hours, at least :))  
    A good question indeed. I also realized that I lack in the TLS knowledge, I'll put it in the 1000 long TOREAD list.  
    I thought about including a section on browser mechanics - parse, evaluate, paint. But I didn't originally say anything about that so I deemed it to be out of scope.  
    You can answer this question for infinitely long -   
    keyboard and typing physics > brain signals to make you type > psychology about why you typed > your great grandfather's marriage and the quadrillion possibilities and detail since then that made you come to that interview > Infinite ∞ stuff about the creation of the universe. ????  
    
          Hey there, we see you aren't signed in. (Yes you, the reader. This is a fake comment.)
          
    
          Please consider creating an account on dev.to. It literally takes a few seconds and we'd appreciate the support so much. ❤️
          
    Plus, no fake comments when you're signed in. ?  
    You jumped over the entire DNS resolution logic with zones and delegation and straight to HTTP protocol specifics which I think are secondary concerns for how DNS actually works. DNS itself is about binding names to numbers but how it goes about doing that is the most important part. HTTP needs name resolution but DNS itself doesn't care, you could just as easily make up another protocol that needed name resolution and DNS would still work.  
    The question is so incredibly broad and can be answered in so many (correct) ways that I can't see how it would be useful  
    The nonce attribute on a script tag is a CSP-related attribute:  
    developers.google.com/web/fundamen...  
    To use a nonce, give your script tag a nonce attribute. Its value must match one in the list of trusted sources. For example:  
    Now, add the nonce to your script-src directive appended to the nonce- keyword.  
    Remember that nonces must be regenerated for every page request and they must be unguessable.  
    It does prevent unsafe script from being executed on the webpage if you have an XSS vulnerability. As the nonce must be present in the CSP header, even if you could inject a script tag it wouldn't be executed.  
    Also note that it does not always default to http and port 80: If your website is in a HSTS preload list. In the case of google.com, it isn't, but many big websites will.
If a website enforces HSTS, it will only default to HTTPS.  
    I like how that's nested under "fundamentals".  
    I often ask this question to figure out which layer they have strength of technical knowledge.  
    If the interviewee talks about network layer longer than others, he probably have great skill on that layer.  
    Can you try to explain me how to use SOLID in frontend with pure javascript?  
    Every time I see a breakdown of this question I am pleasantly surprised about where the author digs in vs skims over. I liked your approach here of writing out an answer off the top of your head and then digging in on what actually happens. I did my own take on this a while back, but I am afraid it came across waaaay more stiff :).  
    For my part, nothing. It tries to resolve the domain name, encounter my blocklist, and is redirected to the loopback address.  
    There is a Github repository that deals with that question and tries to be really specific. 
  
    This repository is an attempt to answer the age old interview question "What
happens when you type google.com into your browser's address box and press
enter?"  
    Except instead of the usual story, we're going to try to answer this question
in as much detail as possible. No skipping out on anything.  
    This is a collaborative process, so dig in and try to help out! There are tons
of details missing, just waiting for you to add them! So send us a pull
request, please!  
    This is all licensed under the terms of the Creative Commons Zero license.  
    Read this in 简体中文 (simplified Chinese) and 한국어 (Korean). NOTE: these
have not been reviewed by the alex/what-happens-when maintainers.  
    thanks for your nice comment , what happen if you copy n paste following address into your browser and press enter --  alamnr.github.io/profile.html?user...  
    Don't forget about all the neat low level stuff that's happening even before you leave the LAN!   
    The tech equivalent of Subway's "How do you make a PB&J sandwich" interview test.  
    And then I would ask "how do the neurons inside your brain react on your intention to google 'cat videos'?".  
    If you were not a developer, what would you like to be?  
    Can you do an "explain to a 5 year old" what happens when you type google into a browser?!  
    The First Few Milliseconds of an HTTPS Connection. moserware.com/2009/06/first-few-mi...  
    Hmm... and I thought you get to the google search. ;)  
    So what did the interviewer say about your answer?  
    Great read, thanks for sharing this!  
    "Yeah, that's fine, we got it. Tell me about the last time you had a difficult bug."  
    Honestly, seemed like he had good questions but wasn't a good interviewer.  
    There is a whole github repo describing what happens in such detail that it will make happy any interviewer.  
    

          What are the skills that'd last throughout your career?
        
  
    
        We’re a place where coders share, stay up-to-date and grow their careers.
        
    
We strive for transparency and don't collect excess data.
  
    
  URL : https://dev.to/antonfrattaroli/what-happens-when-you-type-googlecom-into-a-browser-and-press-enter-39g8?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website