  I’ve been a professional Free Software developer in the GNU/Linux area for 14
years now, and a hobbyist developer and user for much longer. For some reason
that never extended much to the smartphone world, beyond running
LineageOS on my older phones (my current Sony Xperia
is still under warranty and I’m fine with the officially supported Android),
and various stabs at using the Ubuntu phone (RIP!).  
    On a few long weekends this year it got a hold of me, and I had a look over the
Google fence to see how Free Software is doing on Android and how to reduce my
dependency on Google Play Services and Google apps. Less because I would
actually severely distrust Google, as they have a lot of business and goodwill
to lose if they ever majorly screw up; but more because of simple curiosity and
for learning new things. I want to note down my experience here for sharing and
discussing.  
    I started experimenting on my old Nexus 4 by completely blanking it and
installing current LineageOS 14.1 without the Google apps. This provides a nice
testing ground that is completely free of any proprietary Google stuff. From
that I can apply good solutions on my “production” Xperia.  
    The number one must have is of course to install the
F-Droid app, which opens the door to a surprisingly
large and good world of Free Software apps. With that I was already able to replace a
good deal of my installed apps with free alternatives:  
    K9 Mail,
Telegram,
and OsmAnd+ are also
available on F-Droid, which I find preferrable as they rebuild everything
from source and thus binaries seem a bit more trustworthy.  
    I previously used Opera as a web browser, because it is relatively
lightweight (important on my previous phone) and the really good builtin ad
blocker. But these days Firefox is really fast and good enough, so I
replaced it with
Fennec, which
is more or less Firefox with some non-free bits removed. After installing
uBlock Origin
I’ve never looked back.  
    Some apps have fairly straightforward replacements:  
    Some other apps like Google+ and Pocketliga just got replaced with bookmarks
to web sites, which are good enough. This includes Google Maps; I usually
prefer and use OsmAnd for walking, biking, and general navigation/routing.
But for finding commercial things Maps is usually better; however, I use it
rarely enough to not get too annoyed by the much higher latency of the web
page.  
    There are also some apps that I want (like WhatsApp, Nextbike, or Quizduell)
that don’t have free software alternatives. Uptodown
is an alternative app store that does not require Play Services and has a lot
of apps like the above or the Deutsche Bahn Navigator (but that requires Play
Services by itself, so that doesn’t help that much).  
    This was also easy. I’ve run my own Mail server forever, use
mutt on the desktop,
Rainloop for the occasional web mail access, and
the gorgeous K9 on the phone.
I have always loathed the GMail web UI, so I never got into the habit of using
GMail much, except as a sacrificial spam address for random web shops. But it
turns out that this is surprisingly simple to use without the GMail app and
Play services - just create an app password
and use it in a new K9 mail account. This also simplifies things to not having
to deal with two different email apps.  
    I’ve used Google Keep for a long time for notes and
TODO lists. The Android app and widget, and the web UI have a nice no-nonsense
approach and work just fine. Perhaps surprisingly this was the thing that took
me longest to replace: there is a plethora of notes/TODO apps around, and I’ve
tested quite a few of them.  
    During that I discovered Org mode, a very powerful and
flexible plaintext-based system (a bit like Markdown in spirit, but different
syntax and much more powerful). Primarily it is an Emacs extension, but there
is a reasonably good vim-orgmode plugin
for writing on the desktop (which I much prefer over typing in the Keep web
UI!), and Orgzly for Android
that has a pleasant UI for maintaining notes, and also a nice widget for
putting my TODO list on the starter screen.  
    Neither of these can sync with other devices, but fortunately this (rather
independent) task also has a nice solution, see below.  
    I’ve happily used these tools for two months now. vim-orgmode fits my usual
workflow on the desktop much better, and on the phone the experience is not
significantly different (I don’t use the more powerful Org features - yet).  
    While looking for how to synchronize my Org notes between phone and laptop, I
stumbled over the really magnificient Syncthing
project. It’s a general-purpose many-to-many file sync solution using
modern and standard encryption and authentication technology, and is readily
available on Debian (for my server), Fedora (for my laptop), and F-Droid (for
my phone). Installation and configuration on the web and Android UIs are
straightforward, and it can just as easily be used to backing up your photos or
syncing music or ebooks (for you Dropbox or Google Drive using types - I use
neither, though).  
    The main disadvantage to Keep or other Google apps is that there is no push
notification on changes - all instances of Syncthing poll, so there is some
delay in propagating updates. Also, Android keeps nagging with a “Syncthing is
running in the background” notification, but fortunately it can be toned down
enough in Android 8 to not get in the way any more. Power usage is obviously
something to watch out for here, but I haven’t noticed any significantly worse
battery drain so far.  
    A few years ago I had run ownCloud for quite some
time, mostly to store my contacts and calendar. But it takes a non-trivial
amount of setup, maintance, and resources on the server and has a rather high
influx of security issues,
so I went back to Google eventually.  
    Today I discovered Radicale, which is much more
appealing: It is a lightweight Python module that provides a CalDAV/CardDAV API
for a bunch of standard *.ics (calendar) and *.vcf (contact) files. For the
most part its documentation is excellent,
and I set up the service and Apache reverse proxying on my server in no time.  
    The only thing that is not documented well is how to import existing ics/vcf
files (exported from Google Calendar/Contacts). Turns out one can just use a
standard HTTP/WebDAV PUT request:  
    (the same thing with exported *.ics for calendar).  
    On Android I installed
DAVdroid where I just
added the Radicale root URL (with user/password), then saw my two
contact/calendar sources, and enabled them. I disabled the phone’s Google
account on the phone instead. Yay, once again I own my data. :-)  
    This does not provide a web UI for the calendar/contacts. I rarely used
https://calendar.google.com, and essentially never https://contacts.google.com,
so I suppose I won’t actually need to find a replacement. But if so, I might
take a look at Roundcube to replace Rainloop, as the former has a plugin for
calendar. I don’t have Thunderbird, Evolution, or anything similar installed,
as that’s just too heavyweight for the rare cases where I deal with my personal
calendar on the laptop.  
    The one remaining app on my phone that needs Google Play Services is now the
Deutsche Bahn Navigator. I like and use that a lot, both for information and
for buying tickets. On my next trip I’ll give trainline.eu
a go, which looks very promising: same price as https://bahn.de directly, they
consider my BahnCard, don’t need Play Services, and can also book trains in
other countries.  
    There are also some warts with other apps (Quizduell and swa Fahrinfo) that
occasionally complain about missing Play Services, although they work well
enough without. In Nextbike one loses the life map where bikes are available,
which is quite important; a reasonable alternative is to look that up on their
website, which provides the same map. Actually booking a bike and all the other
functionality works fine without Play Services.  
    Update: OpenBikeSharing
is a nice replacement for the Nextbike map. It’s free software and uses the
free citybik.es API. Thanks to Tim Small for pointing
this out!  
    I’ve learned a lot of new things during the above, so this was a worthwhile
experiment beyond mere political and idealistic reasons. However, setting up
such a “Google free” phone requires a significant amount of time, dedication,
and skill (not to mention a personal server), definitively far beyond to what
I’d trust my mother to comprehend. But it’s reassuring to know that, if push
comes to shove, it’s definitively still possible to have an useful smartphone
that’s running mostly FOSS and no Google proprietary stuff!  
    
  URL : https://piware.de/post/2018-05-01-android-degoogle/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website