  Brian Donohue | Pinterest engineering manager, Product Engineering  
    About 100 days ago, our product engineering team began experimenting with a three-day no-meeting schedule for individual contributors on our teams.  
    It’s not a big revelation that software development requires long stretches of uninterrupted time to focus. As Pinterest has grown, we’ve noticed the number of meetings also has increased. Having so many meetings can fragment an engineer’s entire day, eliminating the stretches of uninterrupted time required to build software.  
    Back in 2009, Paul Graham wrote the following, which speaks to this issue better than I can ever hope to:  
    In the interest of preserving these blocks of uninterrupted time, the product engineering organization at Pinterest experimented with putting 9AM-5PM no meeting blocks on engineers’ calendars from Tuesday–Thursday:  
    Over the past several months, product engineering managers have gotten very positive feedback about the three-day no-meeting schedule, and we recently sent out a three question survey about it.  
    The last question was for “other feedback,” and here are some of the positive responses:  
    Here are some of the neutral-to-negative responses:  
    Obviously there are trade-offs when making a change like this. However, we feel that three focused days with two days of meetings is better than scattered meetings throughout the week. The survey results also indicate that the majority of engineers share that sentiment.  
    Since sharing the results, several other engineering organizations at Pinterest have adopted the same no-meeting schedule. Here’s a message I received from an engineer on the protect team in response to his team adopting the schedule:  
    As engineering managers, it’s our job to provide the space and support needed to help our engineers deliver great software. It’s been amazing to see the impact of this seemingly small change on product engineering, and we’re really excited to see other engineering teams adopting it at Pinterest.  
    PS. We’re hiring!  
    By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.  
    Inventive engineers building the first visual discovery engine, 100 billion ideas and counting. https://careers.pinterest.com/careers/engineering  
    
  URL : https://medium.com/@Pinterest_Engineering/three-day-no-meeting-schedule-for-engineers-fca9f857a567?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website