  In this post, I’ll share a framework we’ve developed at Coinbase that helps us make decisions more effectively. Our core values include Clear Communication and Efficient Execution. This framework is an example of how we operationalize those values.  
    This framework can be used to decide:  
    If difficult decisions are slowing down your organization with endless meetings, hurt feelings, and constant second guessing, this may help!  
    We’ve also created a Coinbase Decision Making Template to help take you through the process. Save it to Google Drive, then go to File -> Make a copy to start making a decision.  
    The three steps in the process are:  
    We’ll cover each below, but first let’s zoom out to look at the characteristics of good and bad decision making.  
    The vast majority of decisions in a company are low-risk and should be made unilaterally by the owner of that area (e.g. should we move the stand up meeting from Mon to Tues this week).  
    A decision making framework is only needed when there is lack of clarity about a decision that is higher risk. Higher risk can mean that the decision has long term implications or that it can be costly to unwind if the wrong decision is made.  
    The process can be fairly light weight (I’ve seen it run from start to finish in under 15 minutes, live during a meeting), but it can also be used over multiple weeks for bigger decisions.  
    With experience, you may know in advance when the framework would be beneficial. Other times, it will only become clear once you notice there is disagreement or lack of clarity about a next step.  
    Whatever the case, once you decide the framework is needed, you can follow the steps below.  
    In this step you’ll get everyone on the same page about how the decision will be made. It helps to do this up front to get buy-in and minimize second guessing down the road.  
    You’ll notice a few pieces here:  
    There are three types of people involved in any decision.  
    The ideal number of input providers is between three and eight people. There are diminishing returns to group discussions beyond this point. And the decision may affect a much wider group (the affected parties), so try to have each affected party represented by at least one input provider.  
    Finally, there are three types of decisions:  
    For most decisions, I like to choose one decision maker to keep it simple. However, it can make sense to have multiple decision makers for high risk decisions (where the cost of an incorrect yes decision is greater than the cost of an incorrect no decision).  
    In the same way a bank might require multiple approvals to move a large amount of money, you can put “controls” around high-risk decisions by adding more decision makers, and giving each a veto right. This means a yes decision can only happen if every decision maker is a yes.  
    If you go all the way to requiring a unanimous yes from each input provider, it will further minimize downside potential, but cap your upside as well (“design by committee”). Yes decisions in some areas (e.g. venture capital) can look like contrarian bets that a large panel of people would be unlikely to agree on, so it can be dangerous to move too far toward safety.  
    Balance these trade offs to find the right number of deciders for your particular decision.  
    In general, if the cost of a wrong decision is tolerable, choose a single decision maker to capture the speed bonus. If a wrong decision would be irreversible or too costly, add more decision makers.  
    Next you’ll need to get all the input providers (and decision makers) in a room to share information, and capture their votes.  
    Occasionally you will have clear consensus in the room at this step, and the decision maker’s job is easy. They can simply communicate their decision and the process is complete. But more often, the decision maker(s) will move on to the final step.  
    If necessary, you can complete additional rounds of discussion and voting, within the constraints of the decision date.  
    If the decision was contentious, delivering it via email will give people time to process asynchronously, instead of getting their first reactions live in the room.  
    Difficult decisions can be a source of stress in many organizations, but they don’t have to be. In high performing organizations, they are opportunities to make rapid progress, innovate, and win.  
    There are many ways to mess up decision making, and just like anything you will get better at it over time. I’ve compiled a list of failure modes below and tried to give them a memorable name:  
    This framework has helped Coinbase make better decisions, faster, with more buy in. Hopefully you find it useful on your team!  
    You can view our decision making framework template here. Save it to Google Drive, and go to File -> Make a copy to start using it on a decision.  
    If you’re interested in joining the Coinbase team, please view career opportunities here.  
    Thank you to Balaji Srinivasan, Carey Appeldorn, Dan Romero, Jeremy Henrickson, and Rachael Horowitz for reading drafts of this post. This framework was also influenced by Ray Dalio’s believability weighted decision making, and the IDEO method of brainstorming.  
    By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.  
    Co-Founder and CEO at @Coinbase. Building an open financial system for the world. Join us: https://www.coinbase.com/careers  
    
  URL : https://medium.com/@barmstrong/how-we-make-decisions-at-coinbase-cd6c630322e9?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website