  There over 7 million Google and 13,000 Giphy search results for “hate meetings”. There are almost as many for “love meetings” but that is just irony.  
    Beyond that there are countless posts on time and money wasted in meetings — ”This Company Spent 300,000 Hours a Year in Pointless Meetings” was a headline recently. The Muse reported on study results that 35–50% of work time is in meetings and 67% of meetings are “failures”. We’ve all computed the financial cost to the company of a meeting we hated. Ugh.  
    I’ve endured a lot of bad meetings in my time. I’ve led bad meetings and attended bad meetings. I’ve tried to fix meetings. I’ve broken meetings. This post is about why meetings really are important to getting things done, even with incredibly divergent views on that fact, and why meetings so often go sideways or worse.  
    By and large meetings come and go and most of us just accept them as part of doing collaborative work in a company. Like AutoCorrect, once in a while a meeting backfires to such a degree that it just sets off a stream of emotions about how horrible meetings can be and what a huge waste of time all meetings have become. Some react by attempting to define when/how/if to have meetings as if there is a secret that has eluded most everyone for 100 years.  
    In the course of building a company the most important tool you have to create a culture of shared values is communication and meetings are critical to communication.  
    When you bring together a team of talented and diverse individuals, the only way they will come to operate as a team is by spending time talking, listening, and understanding the perspective individuals bring to contribute to a larger whole. Unless everyone hired shares the same background and experiences, there’s no way a group of people can converge to a high-performance team without meeting, sharing, and learning together. No amount of ping-pong, email, or shared docs can substitute for meeting.  
    This essay does not contain the magical PowerPoint template for how to run an effective meeting, nor does it espouse a system for deciding how, when, or why to meet. I’ve seen every type of agenda, preparation, tracking, issue-list, decision-making tool, template (whether using Word, Excel, Powerpoint, or Outlook). Call me skeptical. In my experience the best tool for meetings is scheduling time to have them in the first place and then to be present. The rest are just distractions to the real goals of sharing, building, deciding.  
    Meetings in this post refers to internal to a company or focused on the internal workings of a company, primarily the most common meetings of small groups. External meetings with (potential) customers, partners, investors, press, and so on are rather different. The last section of the post discusses 1:1s and broader team meetings as well.  
    Before I come to the defense of meetings, we should be honest with ourselves about meetings and some nearly universal truths.  
    I really like @pg’s 2009 post on Maker’s Schedule, Manager’s Schedule. It is absolutely correct and a great way to view time management in general. Read it and internalize it.  
    I believe, however, the post might be interpreted too literally and used in a way that could cause difficulty in a growing company rather than to clarify reality.  
    “Maker time”, aka engineer time, is the most valuable resource in any product effort and everything should always be done to treat engineer time as the precious resource it is and to make it as effective as it can be, especially in an early stage [tech] company when the company is effectively one collective coding brain. Amen.  
    That said, meetings are just as important for engineers as they are for “managers” or “marketing” or “sales” or “execs” or any other functional part (function means job function like eng, marketing, product, sales) of a company. Often engineers can miss the importance because striving for efficiency causes a certain blind spot relative to the larger opportunity of meeting.  
    The shortest way I can say this is that the most important thing in growing a company or team is to of course focus on getting things done, but the only way to get the right things done is by having meetings, by talking. There is no doubt that a group of people not meeting will get a lot of stuff done. It can be said with equal confidence, however, that by not meeting the stuff that will get done will lack cohesiveness, quality, and a shared set of values — the wrong stuff. The most expensive thing a growing company can do is get the wrong stuff done. This risk is magnified the larger the team, but clearly starts with just a couple of people.  
    The question is how to get the right stuff done. The answer is by talking, listening, and discussing. Those together are the ingredients for a shared understanding and with a shared understanding the micro-decisions that everyone makes every day whether writing code, creating positioning, deploying a build, designing an experience, and so on.  
    Talking, listening, discussing should not be thought of as “soft skills” or worse a “waste of time”. Call it talking or call it meeting, but no matter how good each member of the team is at the “hard skills” of their discipline, I am confident even the best are not psychic. That’s why teams need to have meetings.  
    Where meetings are generally misunderstood is that the effort to make them efficient, goal-oriented, and conclusive is exactly what shuts down discussion, causes people to think about what to say next rather than listen, and generally prevents collaboration.  
    We tend to think of meetings themselves as the main event, when in reality meetings should be the practice sessions. Instead of thinking about meetings as the regular season, think of meetings as practice drills or warm-ups. The real main event comes when you’re actually committing work to the screen. If you have done enough drills with your teammates then there’s a really good chance you know how they will react, how they can help, and how the work you’re committing will impact the overall “game”.  
    And since no one thinks they are above practice, we can agree no one is above meetings.  
    Since no one likes to redo work or revisit plans unnecessarily, we can agree that the best tool to avoid that is to use talking and listing—meetings—to get to and remain on the same page.  
    The reality of a company beyond the seed stage is that failing to communicate and collaborate result in massive inefficiencies and rework. And nothing upsets anyone more than having to redo work unnecessarily. In fact, people will spend countless hours debating whether to redo something rather than just a short time redoing just to make that point (reworking shipped code also introduces bugs, I get that). While it is common to view this as an engineering problem because code is expensive, to someone in marketing redoing messaging or redirecting a vendor for an event are each equally costly.  
    Bringing this back to manager schedule versus maker schedule, one important consideration is that everyone at every level in a company is a maker in something. Every single job function has work products that are created. Even CEOs and execs need to have specific work products that they create on their own and do not pass along or “vend out” to others. For a fun description of hiring out people to do your own work, see Michael Kinsley’s Ode to Managers which is the best post on what managers do I have read.  
    Some meeting or time management systems attempt to force a classification of meetings before having a meeting. You decide what a meeting is for and from that decision the length of meeting, the format, the preparation, attendees, and more just follow. Given that I think most meeting should be lightly unstructured, it is no surprise I put little faith in meeting “systems”.  
    There are, however, ways to classify meetings. The most useful reason to classify meetings is so that you have some idea as an attendee or as an organizer as to why everyone is sitting at a table burning hours. Once you recognize why a meeting is happening, it is much easier to participate as well as to reach a Zen state of meeting attendance.  
    Each of the following meetings types is offered along with an approach that focuses on sharing, calibrating, and informing rather than trying to reach approval or decide something.  
    Meetings suck for a lot of reasons, but the least of which is because they take time. Meetings primarily suck because of a fairly common set of human behaviors that are especially dysfunctional in a meeting context.  
    Below are some of the most common dysfunctions. These are listed because the best suggestion for good meetings is to counter dysfunction while it is happening and see if collaboration can be put back on track in real-time. The general rule of providing feedback that is actionable at the time it is happening applies to meetings too.  
    It is worth noting that some of these dysfunctions can become “weaponized” in large organizations where these anti-collaboration skills are used to prevent moving in a direction one does not agree with. Leaders need to recognize and act when someone is derailing a meeting, though in a strong culture peers should be able to call out such behavior as well.  
    This is a long list, and at the same time it is hardly complete! I might add more based on discussions and learning.  
    The thing is that most people say they don’t want to have meetings. Most say “oh that meeting could have been handled with an email or slack message”. They might be right. But that is only if you take the meeting literally. Meetings mean so much more to a company than conveying information or deciding.  
    Meetings are literally how cultures are formed, values expressed, and companies made.  
    Different people have different ways of learning, creating, and ultimately deciding. For a team to function such that the output is greater than the individual efforts summed, people need to align, communicate, and collaborate. People need to be on the same page and share the same values. For most everyone that means they need to have forums to talk, and if they don’t want to talk at the very least they need forums to hear others.  
    The most important things I know that make meetings effective is a very short list. The reason this list is not about how to have a meeting, how to decide things, or how to be accountable is because meetings do not happen in a vacuum or some academic bubble. Meetings happen to get work done. Meetings are about collaborating. Collaborating is about communicating.  
    To communicate you need a baseline upon which that communication takes place. The very best foundation I’ve found is to have a plan. A plan is four things:  
    Together these represent a plan. That’s it. Everything else are details that can be left to the people actually doing the work. The reason meetings can be effective when you have these is because of two factors.  
    First, everything you are meeting about is relative to these factors and you’re not revisiting them every time you talk. Everyone knows concretely why you are there. A plan is the actionable level of detail that explains what everyone is doing over the next month, quarter, years.  
    Second, when something new comes along or a problem arises it will be relative to this foundation and so any changes are not one-off decisions but changes to a plan that can’t be viewed in isolation. A change in goals, schedule, processes or values can only be made as a trade-off against what exists not as something to do in addition or in contradiction to the plan, but as a deliberate trade-off against a plan. Making decisions outside the context of a plan is a waste of time…it is just talking.  
    Establishing the above three are combinations of, yes, meetings and decisions by fiat. Let’s go through them.  
    I would add that there are two very concrete tactics about meetings that I have found to be the most important.  
    The best meetings I remember are the ones where our team got a little closer and more connected and I remember that “feeling” more than I remember the specifics of what we talked about.  
    A team making, marketing, or selling a product is as much a team as any sports, military, or performing troupe. These types of teams “meet” to practice and rehearse. In business too often we think meetings need to be new or decide, but in reality spending time together just makes a better team.  
    The more you know about what and how people think, the more the micro choices you make day in and day out (without meetings) will likely be done in unison. High performance teams don’t really need to meet, but every high-performance team I know seems to have a brain-wave connection across the team. That connection comes from talking, listening, talking, and listening. That can only happen in meetings.  
    As a young programmer I too read The Fountainhead and know that the best work is done by people with principles. Freedom and creativity come from within, your own standards, depending on nothing and no one. “I do not recognize anyone’s right to one minute of my life. Nor to any part of my energy.” And so on…it seems when it comes to meetings people just want to be left alone.  
    What I would say to Roark is that software and products at scale are not really done by one person, even if one person has a vision. To execute that vision requires a team. Teams require collaboration and execution. And the only way to do that is in meetings.  
    I skipped a lot of meetings and at the same time was given a lot of grief for spending too much time meeting with the team. Everyone has their own style and every company its own culture, but to I wanted to share what I found most valuable in executing at scale:  
    The contents or agenda for each of these was far less important than allocating the time to talk, to listen, to discuss. I always knew the best decisions were made simply because we had spent time together to get on the same page in broader goals, team values, and shared understanding of how work should be done.  
    Author’s note. This is a very long post. Why? I wrote this to be a one-stop-shop for meetings figuring the internet is filled with snappy short posts on meeting effectiveness. I thought having an archive of a few decades of meeting experience, dysfunction, and best practices would be a unique contribution. Please you are encouraged to take this in over time and to copy/paste some tips. ?  
    From a quick cheer to a standing ovation, clap to show how much you enjoyed this story.  
    a16z • Box • Tanium • Product Hunt • Everlaw • ॐ • ?  
    products, development, management  
    
  URL : https://medium.learningbyshipping.com/reaching-peak-meeting-efficiency-f8e47c93317a?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website