  use the following search parameters to narrow your results:  
    e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog  
    see the search faq for details.  
    advanced search: by author, subreddit...  
    319 users here now  
    Join the /r/startups Discord!  
    FAQs, lessons, and resources  
    Welcome to r/startups, a community for all backgrounds, levels of expertise, and business experience.   
    Startups are designed to scale/grow rapidly. Startups are disruptive, either via technology or business model. Startups are information era companies and they are creating the new best practices in business.    
    We share interesting discussions and stories about our startup journeys, both the failures, the successes, and the embarrassments. Our best traits are authenticity and integrity.  
    /r/startups is looking for you, someone you know, or someone you'd like to ask questions of to participate in an AMA!   
    Message the mods for instructions on how to get flair verifying your experience.   
    The only thing you may market and promote in /r/startups is your wisdom to ask questions and give answers. You may share your startup in the monthly Share Your Startup thread. Do not solicit PMs outside of the stickied threads. Contribute to the public discussion, please. No unscheduled AMAs.  
    Submissions are for discussing methodologies, experiences, tactics, strategies, techniques, markets, and other such things without tying them directly to your own project using its name or URL.    
    If you are submitting your own blog content, the full body of the content must be included in the post, properly formatted for reddit.  Videos must include an outline with time stamps of the content and an in depth summary. If it is not your own blog, you still need to provide a summary of what it is and why you are sharing it. 
If you include a link, your post will have to be approved by the mods. You can only link to the original blog post.   
    Titles must be clear and descriptive. Submissions must have at least 500 characters of content.   
    All feedback requests (including surveys/polls), ideation/brainstorming ideas, support requests (hiring, etc), and offers of support (links to resources/tools/communities, self promotion of your services/tools) belong in our Weekly Feedback and Support Thread or our new Discord chatroom  
    Do not message a moderator directly for mod business. Either reply to their comment in a submission or use the Message the Moderators feature in this side bar.  
    /r/StartupAccelerators  
    /r/entrepreneur  
    /r/kickstarter  
    /r/business  
    /r/hwstartups  
    /r/smallbusiness  
    /r/marketing  
    /r/sideproject  
    /r/growmybusiness  
    /r/shutdown (startup graveyard)  
    /r/venturedcapital   
    /r/AlphaAndBetaUsers (post your 'can you test my new product' posts here!)    
    /r/telecommuting (subreddit about remotely working)    
    Want more? Hacker News  
    Emperor Alexis Ohanian  
    Founders of the Startup Institute  
    Jaan Tallinn, Skype co-founder  
    Imgur Founder  
    Mozilla Contributer  
    Silicon Valley Venture Capitalist  
    Previous Share your Startup threads  
    New to the scene? Find your closest Startup Weekend!  
    the front page of the internet.  
    and subscribe to one of thousands of communities.  
      
    6,450 words that built a billion-dollar business before the internet (self.startups)  
    submitted 8 days ago * by jeffmanu  
    On October 19, 1948, Merrill Lynch published a 6,450 word ad in the New York Times.   
    It cost them about five thousand dollars to run the ad which Louis Engel convinced his bosses was a good idea.  
    The ad had no explicit references to the brokerage firm and was blandly titled, “What Everybody Ought to Know about This Stock and Bond Business”  
    At the bottom, the bottom right of the page was a little call to action that acknowledges Merrill Lynch as the sponsor and invited the reader to request free reprints of the ad in pamphlet form.    
    Engel who had only been at the firm for two years gave his superiors two major concerns.   
    First, such free information and education were sure to benefit their rivals.   
    Secondly, why would anyone respond to getting a pamphlet of something they could simple tear out of the paper?   
    Before I share with you the results, it’s important to note that Merrill Lynch first tested this concept in a smaller publication in Cleveland.  
    This is important because testing is important before you invest heavily in any campaign or promotion.   
    Back to the story…  
    The Cleveland experiment had encouraging results.   
    After Engel published his ad in the New York Times, Merrill Lynch received more than five thousand requests from potential customers.   
    What’s amazing is that they received hundreds of long and thoughtful letters from appreciative readers.   
    One person said: “God bless Merrill Lynch; …I have been wanting to know this all my life;…I owned stocks and bonds and I never really knew what I owned.”  
    The firm run the same promotion, or slightly edited versions, in newspapers across the country for the next few months and years.  
    They are said to have received over three million responses and millions of customers.   
    You can imagine the impact such an ad had on their business.   
    Decades later, Merrill Lynch is a part of Bank of America and manages of over $2.2 trillion in client assets.    
    Do you think this will work today?  
    I have used this to successfully build a consulting business that builds marketing systems for startups and my new tech startup is employing the same strategy.   
    Have you heard of Ogilvy and Mather?  
    David Ogilvy modeled Louis Engel’s approach and created 17 ads for his business.   
    In one report David Ogilvy said he had sold over 1.4 billion dollars’ worth of advertising.  
    Would you like to know how to use these same strategies to increase your market share?  
    Make it a focus to educate your market better than any competitor can.   
    The better advised a person is, the more likely they are to hold you in high regard as an expert.    
    Post a comment!  
      
    [–]canaryhawk 18 points19 points20 points 7 days ago (1 child)  
    Here's the original ad  
      
    [–]Fatmanbruh 2 points3 points4 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    This is native advertising nothing crazy. If you’re the first to market with it, it can have a tremendous impact like this. Unfortunately this is the basis of clickbait and how to’s. No longer ground breaking.  
      
    [–]sandj12 11 points12 points13 points 7 days ago (3 children)  
    I like the spirit of this idea. My only concerns for startups doing this are  
    (a) It could come across as noise, because at this point this strategy has been copied quite a bit. You hear a lot about companies trying to be "thought leaders" in their field, etc.  
    (b) It's difficult to walk the fine line between passively encouraging people to buy your product and writing really ham-handed copy that constantly links back to your product within the "educational" content.  
      
    [–]jeffmanu[S] 3 points4 points5 points 7 days ago (2 children)  
    Point A is actually a very valid concern. Since so many people have caught on to this, content marketing that is unique is even more difficult in our time.   
      
    [–]sandj12 0 points1 point2 points 7 days ago (1 child)  
    Yeah, and even if it's not the #1 priority I think it's still a worthwhile piece of a marketing strategy but only if done thoughtfully.  
      
    [–]dgcaste 0 points1 point2 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    You would think it could come across as noise because there is a lot of noise. Excellent content is central to people’s utopian idea of the internet. Something that happens zero times: someone thinking “this content that is relevant to my needs is excellent but too bad that I there is enough of it around”  
      
    [–]Monkeyboogaloo 15 points16 points17 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    Not heard that story. Very good. It’s what I believe in. I will use it as an example.   
      
    [–]teddytravels 4 points5 points6 points 7 days ago (1 child)  
    i realized this in my last company, a multimillion dollar revenue niche ecommerce shop. we positioned ourselves as a voice of authority in the niche by creating unique, informative content on our blog and in product pamhplets. content is king. clients and customers appreciate useful information!  
      
    [–]jeffmanu[S] 1 point2 points3 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    True. Clients are human and we all like it when someone gives us useful info.   
      
    [–]sCaRaMaNgA 3 points4 points5 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    I see what you did there   
      
    [–]AnthemWild 1 point2 points3 points 8 days ago (0 children)  
    Great post! Content marketing still works, all these years later.  
      
    [–]world_is_mundane_197 1 point2 points3 points 7 days ago (2 children)  
    Yep. This is something I plan on doing. But how do you make sure that the extra information does not clog down the UI ?   
    Job's big idea of keeping things simple and neat. But I would like my users to know a bit about the technical details. At a high level.   
    I suppose it is a balance I need to strike. May be have a button like more info, which can show more details if the user is interested, else keep the UI simple and dumbed down.   
      
    [–]jeffmanu[S] 0 points1 point2 points 7 days ago (1 child)  
    I think its best to use the content as a guide from point A to point B.   
    I think a lot of content is merely information and not insights. 
That can be a problem.   
      
    [–]world_is_mundane_197 0 points1 point2 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    I see your point. But that is a difficult in real life too, too much information, not enough of any actual value.   
      
    [–]Golfclubr 1 point2 points3 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    wow... very great. Many writers have encouraged us that we should take the position of a "consultant" who teaches, when we want to sell our stuff  
      
    [–]dougie-io 1 point2 points3 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    Make it a focus to educate your market better than any competitor can.   
    I like that!  
      
    [–]Tyrion_Lannistark 0 points1 point2 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    I love this subreddit  
      
    [–]emotionalgeeko 0 points1 point2 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    I think it's the effect a consumer ought to have when everything is oversimplified for him to understand and thinks that this firm is a better company dedicated to serving the masses instead of the specifically educated types.  
      
    [–]amosschorr 0 points1 point2 points 7 days ago (4 children)  
    Content marketing can be valuable. But it's not valuable for every business or every market, contrary to what many 'thought leaders' are suggesting. Do your own homework.  
    Also, content marketing isn't a strategy, it's a tactic that can be valuable in supporting a strategy. Many people seem to confuse this. It's possible that content marketing could comprise most of your tactics, but your marketing strategy comes first.  
      
    [–]jeffmanu[S] -1 points0 points1 point 7 days ago (3 children)  
    I agree with the part about strategy but I wonder which product you've seen that can't be sold with words?  
      
    [–]amosschorr -1 points0 points1 point 6 days ago (2 children)  
    That's a pretty reductive view of content marketing. It's not just selling with words. It's about establishing thought leadership through carefully curated or created content. But not every industry or org you're selling to responds to or cares about that, and there are often more efficient ways to accomplish the same goal depending on your resources and your objectives.  
      
    [–]jeffmanu[S] -1 points0 points1 point 6 days ago (1 child)  
    What you forget is that an industry or organization is really just another name for 'human beings'.   
    I'm still interested to know which industries or products you encountered that couldn't be sold with content marketing.   
      
    [–]amosschorr 0 points1 point2 points 6 days ago* (0 children)  
    No, I didn't forget that.... My job is literally to study and improve organizational dynamics (oversimplified, but true). Organizations emerge from human beings. But to say organizations ARE human beings is, once more, far too reductive (a pattern?). Organizations emerge from the relations between human beings, and that creates certain dynamics that determine their culture and ecosystem. Similarly, industries emerge from the relations between organizations AND human beings, and they have their own dynamics as well. I'm still interested to know why you're pushing a tactic on everyone without know whether it fits their strategy.  
    Also, did I say there are industries and products that couldn't be sold through content marketing, or did I say that there are often more efficient ways to sell to industries or orgs that may not respond to that? I'm sure there's always a way to do content marketing to fit the industry or org because it's a tactic and tactics can usually be retrofitted to various strategies, but that doesn't mean it's a +EV tactic for every (or even most) orgs.  
    Direct mail is a tactic that CAN work for every industry or product. Does it make sense for everyone to use it? HELL NO.  
      
    [–]cowabungapizzatime 0 points1 point2 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    Oh so this is the origin of inbound marketing.  
      
    [–]the_uncommon 0 points1 point2 points 7 days ago (0 children)  
    That's a great story. More proof that content marketing works.  
      
    [–]stairapprentice 0 points1 point2 points 4 days ago (0 children)  
    This is content marketing. Text-based ads had been going on for a while when the ad you mentioned came out.   
    Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy. © 2018 reddit inc. All rights reserved.  
    REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc.  
    π Rendered by PID 79339 on  app-619  at 2018-04-05 13:53:26.874840+00:00 running 5492dd0 country code: JP.  
    
  URL : https://www.reddit.com/r/startups/comments/87qnoa/6450_words_that_built_a_billiondollar_business/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website