  use the following search parameters to narrow your results:  
    e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog  
    see the search faq for details.  
    advanced search: by author, subreddit...  
    231 users here now  
    Join the /r/startups Discord!  
    FAQs, lessons, and resources  
    Welcome to r/startups, a community for all backgrounds, levels of expertise, and business experience.   
    Startups are designed to scale/grow rapidly. Startups are disruptive, either via technology or business model. Startups are information era companies and they are creating the new best practices in business.    
    We share interesting discussions and stories about our startup journeys, both the failures, the successes, and the embarrassments. Our best traits are authenticity and integrity.  
    /r/startups is looking for you, someone you know, or someone you'd like to ask questions of to participate in an AMA!   
    Message the mods for instructions on how to get flair verifying your experience.   
    The only thing you may market and promote in /r/startups is your wisdom to ask questions and give answers. You may share your startup in the monthly Share Your Startup thread. Do not solicit PMs outside of the stickied threads. Contribute to the public discussion, please. No unscheduled AMAs.  
    Submissions are for discussing methodologies, experiences, tactics, strategies, techniques, markets, and other such things without tying them directly to your own project using its name or URL.    
    If you are submitting your own blog content, the full body of the content must be included in the post, properly formatted for reddit.  Videos must include an outline with time stamps of the content and an in depth summary. If it is not your own blog, you still need to provide a summary of what it is and why you are sharing it. 
If you include a link, your post will have to be approved by the mods. You can only link to the original blog post.   
    Titles must be clear and descriptive. Submissions must have at least 500 characters of content.   
    All feedback requests (including surveys/polls), ideation/brainstorming ideas, support requests (hiring, etc), and offers of support (links to resources/tools/communities, self promotion of your services/tools) belong in our Weekly Feedback and Support Thread or our new Discord chatroom  
    Do not message a moderator directly for mod business. Either reply to their comment in a submission or use the Message the Moderators feature in this side bar.  
    /r/StartupAccelerators  
    /r/entrepreneur  
    /r/kickstarter  
    /r/business  
    /r/hwstartups  
    /r/smallbusiness  
    /r/marketing  
    /r/sideproject  
    /r/growmybusiness  
    /r/shutdown (startup graveyard)  
    /r/venturedcapital   
    /r/AlphaAndBetaUsers (post your 'can you test my new product' posts here!)    
    /r/telecommuting (subreddit about remotely working)    
    Want more? Hacker News  
    Emperor Alexis Ohanian  
    Founders of the Startup Institute  
    Jaan Tallinn, Skype co-founder  
    Imgur Founder  
    Mozilla Contributer  
    Silicon Valley Venture Capitalist  
    Previous Share your Startup threads  
    New to the scene? Find your closest Startup Weekend!  
    the front page of the internet.  
    and subscribe to one of thousands of communities.  
      
    Do Not Make the Mistakes I Have - Document your Business Dealings from Day 0 (self.startups)  
    submitted 2 days ago by meshtron  
    None of you know me IRL (at least not that we know of), I am what most would consider an exceedingly even-keeled, well-mannered person.  It's true both in what I outwardly show as well as internally - a necessary result of dealing with the stresses and frustrations of relying 100% on your startup to fund your life.  
    That said, right now as I sit down to write this, it is because I am so angry that I can barely see straight - mad enough that I know I have to write today off as zero productivity.  So, while this may come across as obvious, self-induced self pity, I'm writing in genuinely in the hopes that it saves someone the exact feelings I'm having right now.  This is the story of how a well-meaning, relatively intelligent, too-trusting entrepreneur created amazing things, and made silly mistakes the result of which cost him literally hundreds of thousands of dollars and many years of unnecessary financial stress.  
    TL,DR;
This is long, your time is valuable - here is the jist:  
    Document EVERYTHING in writing.  Your best friend / partner / cofounder / priest / brother / etc. will screw you over in a heartbeat some time down the road and it's impossible to know when or how.  So, get in the habit from Day 0 of documenting not only every agreement you make, but everything you invest time in (including exactly how much time and when) that is supporting someone else's cause.  
    I was going to write this out as short stories for each of these 3 points, but honestly the stories are too long, too complicated, and the view is the view regardless of whether you know the route we climbed.  So, I will boil these down to just the critical lessons.  
    Background
In 2009 I left the corporate world (not exactly by choice, but that's another story!) and started a small design consulting business.  I had been an automotive enthusiast for years, had a new found passion for 3D CAD modeling, and intended to do contract-design work for the automotive performance (racing and modding) market.  I had some good luck and was able to get rolling, though it too years before the business was actually making money.  I have since pivoted that company (to manufacturing and selling B2B and B2C parts we designed) and sold it for a modest sum.  All these 3 stories relate to that company though I retained ownership of the product mentioned in the 3rd story after the sale of the company.  
    Mistake 1 circa 2010  
    I found it nearly impossible to get paid royalties I was due for products in a timely manner (I licensed the design, I did not manufacture them).  When I did get paid, the lifetime value of the amount I got was equivalent to roughly $9/hr for the time it had taken to do the design and validation work.  Eventually they had a shop copy my parts, stopped paying me any royalties whatsoever, and then "sold their business" for a significant amount of money to another company who now claims (though they know otherwise) they bought the rights to those designs.  Estimated annual sales of the designs in question is $100-$175k.  
    Lesson 1: Royalties  
    Mistake 2 circa 2011  
    From early 2011 until mid 2016 I did engineering and design work for a guy (we'll call him MouthOnFace) who had an actual good idea, but not the technical skills or cash to turn it into something.  We had a handshake deal at the very beginning that I would get an equity stake so I would bill him occasionally once he had some funds (which he did not for the first year we worked together) but I would also put in a lot of sweat equity.  It has turned out poorly.  Long story, but here are the lessons:  
    Lesson 2: Delayed Gratification  
    Tomorrow I am filing suit against MouthOnFace to recover nearly 900 hours of work I did - unpaid - at a time when those hours could have been far better spent on other cash-generating projects.  I am not a lawsuit kind of guy, but there is no other resolution to this.  
    Mistake 3 circa 2015  
    I was flattered and honored to be asked to design a fairly complex product for a leader in the performance industry - let's call them WellRespectedShop.  They had tried to tackle it internally but could not come up with a good solution.  I literally worked on it for a week, and they loved my design so we built and sold them.  During a visit there, they mentioned another problem they'd been working on for years and had never come up with a satisfactory solution.  As it turned out, I had been thinking about exactly the same problem and come up with an idea that I thought was a slam dunk.  In fact, I had even built a prototype.  
    This morning I woke up to news that WellRespectedShop is about to release a new product...  
    Lesson 3: Patents and NDA's in the Real World  
    If you made it this far, thanks for reading.  Know that writing this has been somewhat cathartic and as I finish it up (some 10 hours after I started it) I'm back to calm(ish) and cool(ish).  We'll win our lawsuit against MouthOnFace and I will make a surprise visit to WellRespectedShop soon to at least have a face-to-face conversation with the owner about exactly wtf is going on.  But, there is a very good chance that best case scenario is we both make the parts and try to not cross streams.  
    Document the work you do.  Believe in the value you create strongly enough to know that others will try to capitalize on it.  Don't be jaded, but understand that in business your best buddy today can be your mortal enemy tomorrow and it may have not a thing to do with you.  
    Good luck in all your endeavors, and I sincerely hope my foolish mistakes can help someone else avoid at least one.  Cheers all, off to bed.  
    Post a comment!  
      
    [–]TheMeisterAce 20 points21 points22 points 2 days ago (1 child)  
    Good advice! Thanks for taking the time to write it.  
    I used to do handshake deals. I used to play fast and loose with partnerships. I have had to evict partners from company property. I have had to battle partners. I have had to settle with partners.   
    You need to always look out for your best interest both proactively and aggressively.   
      
    [–]NewFuturist 4 points5 points6 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    Even if you get the other side to allude to a handshake deal in writing, it can save your arse. Do it. Hey that sound like a pretty good deal, send me an email confirming it from your work account, thanks.  
      
    [–]mighty_k_marketing 16 points17 points18 points 2 days ago (0 children)  
    I am sorry what you went through. Your story showed that you are brilliant at what you do, but were slow out of the gate on the business end.  
    I find these stories far more instructive than the gratuitous success stories and hopefully you will at the very least help others escape your fate.  
    Good luck on your future ventures!  
      
    [–]ezfrag2016 7 points8 points9 points 2 days ago (0 children)  
    Thanks for sharing. These may feel like lost opportunities that have left a hole in your earnings forecast but you still have the most valuable piece of your business - you.  
    Unlike a business built around other people’s value, yours is built around your own and you are demonstrably successful as evidenced by other people going to the trouble to rip you off.  
    Breathe, reset and go again. Good luck!  
      
    [–]RedditorFor8Years 6 points7 points8 points 2 days ago (1 child)  
    People like you make it worth visiting this sub Reddit. Thanks for the post.  
      
    [–]meshtron[S] 0 points1 point2 points 16 hours ago (0 children)  
    Ha, my pleasure.  I only wish this were an exhaustive list of the mistakes I have made and survived...  
      
    [–]CPSolver 4 points5 points6 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    Also, when you are about to sign a document, if it contains anything you can’t accept, use a pen to write a correction (and initial the change), and only then should you sign it. The other person might not want to initial your changes (which reveals their selfishness), but at least you are not committing to something unfair.   
      
    [–]loveskoalas 2 points3 points4 points 1 day ago (3 children)  
    Wow, as an attorney this was a fascinating read. It sounds like you should just hire an attorney to follow you around all day and make shit legal.   
      
    [–]meshtron[S] 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (1 child)  
    In hindsight, that would have made life much easier!  Part of it was the nature of my work as far as creating new stuff, but the vast majority of the trouble was me believing that I could manage the relationships well enough to overcome any adversity.  In every case, the other party had more to gain by working with me than against me...  But the reality is that at some point in every relationship that equation can change (when they have enough to not need you anymore) and not having good documentation to fall back on suddenly leaves you feeling like you've stepped out of the house and forgotten to get dressed.  
      
    [–]loveskoalas 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    I realize nobody goes into any relationship, business or otherwise, thinking how will this go wrong and what should I do to protect myself? There's so much trust in the beginning. But you never really know when that trust is misspaced.   
    I always liked that language in the SALT I or II talks, I forget, and maybe it was Reagan: "trust but verify."   
      
    [–]CharredOldOakCask 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    I bet you'd like that. ;)  
      
    [–]meshtron[S] 2 points3 points4 points 1 day ago* (0 children)  
    Thanks for the comments all, couple things I wanted to make clear:  
    1) The reason I got so fired up yesterday was that I found out WellRespectedShop is ripping off my product and not an hour later got an email from MouthOnFace guy saying he wasn't going to pay anything (he's been accruing interest on an invoice he agreed to - in writing - for a year now).  Not sure I ever made that point clear  
    2) I was able to get this business well enough to sell it, and I"m pleased to say the new owners are doing well and - because they can actually MAKE the parts themselves - they are in a much better position than I was to make good profit at it  
    3) I have indeed started a new company in a completely different field (Industrial Hardware-Enabled SaaS) and am bringing every one of these lessons along with a thousand more I learned to bear on the new project.  
    As a wise young man who worked for me in my previous business told me yesterday "it's easy to look at the high cost of all those mistakes, but having those things ingrained in your head for your new venture will save you many times more."   
      
    [–]MGoAzul 1 point2 points3 points 1 day ago (1 child)  
    This should go without saying, but most people often ignore it b/c they're penny wise, pound foolish - always get a lawyer to review everything you sign and to draft everything you want into a document. You'll spend 5-10k or more on the front end and save yourself 10x or more on the back end because of this. Ex: mistake No. 1 could easily have been avoided if the proper contract were in place detailing the ownership/royalties/etc. I could go on but not worth beating a dead horse.   
      
    [–]meshtron[S] 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    Of course you're not wrong.  But, the reality for me at the time was I simply did not have access to $5-10k in funding even if I had the foresight to understand its value.  But, the huge mistake I made was writing off documents as something I couldn't afford, when even a clear, concise email between everyone involved with some confirmation would have been at least SOMETHING on which to lean.  So - if a startup has the cash by all means get the best documents you can get.  But if you don't, still put time and effort into generating something written down and acknowledged - it's way better than a handshake.  
      
    [–]isaacwir85 0 points1 point2 points 2 days ago (0 children)  
    thanks for the POST  .   
      
    [–]educateagitate 0 points1 point2 points 2 days ago (0 children)  
    Thank you so much for this post and sorry this happened to you! I hope all goes well! Best!  
      
    [–]overdamped 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    Thanks for the info. Restarting my career as an engineer and have been doing start ups, so that was some good info.  
      
    [–]theFIREMindset 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    Seems like you love creation and design of those nice parts.  Keep your head high.  Am sure the people that screwed you over know your value, and people around them do as well.  An opportunity will come, and these pitiful people that did not realize your value will be sorry.    
    Just remember there is no longer "shame o. You" here; I hope you can see past excitement when you start a new endeavor and focus on ironing out the legalities first.    
      
    [–]adtac 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (1 child)  
    How do you (not just OP, everybody) record your time and document each expense/invoice? Do you use some software? Or write it down in a book? Obviously, "use anything, but do it", but I would like to get started with the best solution right from the start.  
      
    [–]meshtron[S] 1 point2 points3 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    In my new venture, I am using Quickbooks Online and yes, I record time activities every time I do work for anyone else.  I use accounts to collate those whether or not they will be invoiced, and if its work I am doing for no charge I apply a 100% discount so I have visibility at all times as to how much time I am giving away per customer.  
    I think a person could do it manually, but there are lots of time and expense tracking software options that are very affordable.  
      
    [–]delta_tee 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    Hi u/meshtron very good advice indeed. I would go ahead and say that the main reason behind 99% failure rate of startups and micro-entreprises is the negligence of documentation. Negligence in documentation means bad negotiation and dealing skills, as well as bad problem solving skills.  
    We realised this and created Doctual.  
    Now, without having any legal background, you can do all your legal documentation quick and easily.
Check out: www.doctual.com  
    Documents you create in the Doctual platform are based on standarization, which is indeed based on standard international practice among successful startups and SMEs.  
    As a bonus, you get online pdf signing completely free.  
      
    [–]JPSE 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (5 children)  
    Very true - friends can become mortal enemies on account of business  
      
    [–]redditorded 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (4 children)  
    It's happening to me as we speak.  
      
    [–]JPSE 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (3 children)  
    Happened to me twice. 
Grateful for good lawyers.   
      
    [–]redditorded 0 points1 point2 points 22 hours ago (2 children)  
    My best friend/ ex partner is currently suing me. Although we had no agreement on paper of any kind. Waiting to see what his lawyers come up with.  
      
    [–]JPSE 0 points1 point2 points 17 hours ago (1 child)  
    Yup. Ex best friend... If you're in NY and you need a good lawyer, let me know.  
    Also, it's so important to have an operating agreement...   
      
    [–]redditorded 0 points1 point2 points 17 hours ago (0 children)  
    I think we should finally learn the lesson here: don't mix friends with business.EVER. Quick question though doesn't it affect your relation with you peer circle in terms of how they perceive you after all this shit with your closest friends?  
      
    [–]DavidoftheDoell 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    You have learned some valuable lessons. I think the next few years are going to be very profitable for you!  
      
    [–]jjoe808 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    Thanks for the good advice.  I hope your are able to get compensated or make it big on your own.    
      
    [–]Xthe_juggernaut 0 points1 point2 points 1 day ago (0 children)  
    I am so sorry you found all the wrong people. I wish you a comeback kid victory. I laughed loudly when I read mouthonface haha  
      
    [–]istrng 0 points1 point2 points 2 days ago (0 children)  
    Thanks for sharing. I read it with interest and will use some of it.  
    Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy. © 2018 reddit inc. All rights reserved.  
    REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc.  
    π Rendered by PID 8141 on  app-727  at 2018-04-08 10:59:49.496666+00:00 running 0394969 country code: JP.  
    
  URL : https://www.reddit.com/r/startups/comments/8a5onf/do_not_make_the_mistakes_i_have_document_your/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website