  A few months ago, I settled on a name for my new company. Since the launch two weeks ago, I’ve received the question, “why SparkToro?” a few dozen times. Unlike my prior entrepreneurial venture (in which I started with the very awkward SEOmoz.org, and later rebranded to Moz.com), I was far more thoughtful and intentional this time around. And since one of my big missions is to help people do better marketing, I couldn’t think of a better time to tackle what can be a thorny subject.  
    What priorities matter when choosing a name for your new business or project? Something you personally like? A name that makes what you do obvious? Do names even matter all that much?  
    Let’s tackle this topic first. If your goal is to maximize your short and long-term odds of survival and success, the name you select should be designed to have the biggest impact on one area of your company: Marketing.  
    You want a name that:  
    A contrarian could reasonably argue that many names which do a terrible job of these have turned into successful businesses. Amazon (which was obviously a river for a long time before the company launched). Xero (which I’m actually still not clear on how to pronounce). Virgin (which means… something else). Dairy Queen (seems like there must be a relation to Burger King, right?). Hachette (not exactly easy to pronounce). Every single law firm partnership (Something, Someone, and Someone Else… I think one of them starts with an “S”).  
    When we talk about optimizing to reduce marketing friction, it can be valuable to ask “is there something in these names that made them work better?” but it’s not productive to get wrapped up in survivorship bias. There are hundreds of factors that go into a company’s survive-ability and success. A name is only one. But it’s also entirely in your control. So why not give your new venture the best possible odds with a name that meets a few, marketing-friendly criteria?  
    There’s some interesting research to back up the importance of brand names, including stock prices of companies with easier-to-pronounce names perform better (don’t let anyone tell you “the market doesn’t have human biases”), words build up implicit associations that can bias perception (and behavior), and (perhaps most saliently for startups) simpler names correlated with higher odds of staying alive among early-stage companies, even when controlling for many other variables.  
    It’s not a bad idea. You’ll certainly live with it (hopefully) a long time, and need to say it an awful lot. Choosing a name that fits the criteria for marketing ease that make you recoil in regret each time you need to type it or share it is definitely a bad idea. But I wouldn’t suggest aiming for something you absolutely love.  
    Why not? Because it usually biases you to choose something personally enjoyable over something that’s going to add value to the entity. My advice is to start by coming up with names that meet the criteria, and only *then* choose your favorite one. In this way, you limit the risk of falling in love with a name that resonates personally, but performs poorly on the important tests below.  
    My personal checklist (which encompasses much of the other new company naming advice out there) has the following:  
    Want that as a visual checklist you can put in a slide deck or copy/paste into a tweet? (I know I always like those — they reduce, you guessed it, marketing friction!) Here you go:  
      
    There’s a larger version available for download here, too.  
    Of course, you don’t have to nail every aspect. Many names come with drawbacks and positives. For me, SparkToro is a syllable more and 2-3 characters longer than a perfectly ideal name. But I was willing to sacrifice those in exchange for a name with zero Google results (when queried in quotes prior to Feb. 28, 2018) and every other aspect I wanted (plus I really like the cartoon, Totoro, and the sushi made from fatty tuna belly, otoro).  
    Tons of successful companies have gotten by with mediocre names, and many have leveraged their strengths in certain arenas to overcome weaknesses in others (e.g. A16Z in venture capital turned their hard-to-spell combination of last names into a clever, short, memorable acronym). There’s even anecdotal data suggesting that nicknaming longer or more convoluted names may have a positive processing fluency impact.  
    Ben Thompson noted a strength (uniqueness) of his brand’s hard-to-pronounce-and-spell name on Twitter:  
      
    If you’ve got additional naming criteria for new companies, I’d love to hear about it in the comments ?  
    
  URL : https://sparktoro.com/blog/how-to-choose-a-startup-name-that-reduces-marketing-friction/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website