  More...  
    Enter your email address  
    preview  |  powered by FeedBlitz  
    






  
    Facebook: Seth's Facebook
	Twitter: @thisissethsblog  
    More...  
      
    WWW SETH'S BLOG  
    An intensive, 4-week online workshop designed to accelerate leaders to become change agents for the future. Designed by Seth Godin, for you.  
    Seth's most important book about the art of marketing  
    The practical sequel to Purple Cow  
    An instant bestseller, the book that brings all of Seth's ideas together.  
    Why the internet works (and doesn't) for your business. And vice versa.  
    The classic Named "Best Business Book" by Fortune.  
    The latest book, Poke The Box is a call to action about the initiative you're taking - in your job or in your life, and Seth once again breaks the traditional publishing model by releasing it through The Domino Project.  
    The worldwide bestseller. Essential reading about remarkable products and services.  
    A long book filled with short pieces from Fast Company and the blog. Guaranteed to make you think.  
    Seth's worst seller and personal favorite. Change. How it works (and doesn't).  
    All for charity. Includes original work from Malcolm Gladwell, Tom Peters and Promise Phelon.  
    Top 5 Amazon ebestseller for a year. All about web sites that work.  
    A short book about quitting and being the best in the world. It's about life, not just marketing.  
    Seth's most personal book, a look at the end of the industrial economy and what happens next.  
    "Book of the year," a perennial bestseller about leading, connecting and creating movements.  
    More than 3,000,000 copies downloaded, perhaps the most important book to read about creating ideas that spread.  
    A short, illustrated, kids-like book that takes the last chapter of Icarus and turns it into something worth sharing.  
    The end of mass and how you can succeed by delighting a niche.  
    The sequel to Small is the New Big. More than 600 pages of the best of Seth's blog.  
    
« It's time |
				Main
				| Video/podcast roundup »
  
    A few meditations:  
    Good for you. Isn't it better that your ideas are worth stealing? What would happen if you worked all that time, created that book or that movie or that concept and no one wanted to riff on it, expand it or run with it? Would that be better?  
    You're not going to run out of ideas. In fact, the more people grab your ideas and make magic with them, the more of a vacuum is sitting in your outbox, which means you will prompted to come up with even more ideas, right?   
    Ideas that spread win. They enrich our culture, create connection and improve our lives. Isn't that why you created your idea in the first place?  
    The goal isn't credit. The goal is change.  
       
    [A new episode of Akimbo is out today, with riffs about infinite and finite games. Feel free to subscribe, and please steal these ideas. Ready to spread your ideas? Check out The Marketing Seminar... don't forget the purple circle.]  
       
    
			
				Posted by Seth Godin on March 28, 2018
				
			
				  
    
 |  | 
  
    
« It's time |
				Main
				| Video/podcast roundup »
  
    
  URL : http://sethgodin.typepad.com/seths_blog/2018/03/when-your-ideas-get-stolen.html?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website