  For a startup, dealing with competition is like driving a winding mountain road: It’s foggy. You can barely distinguish the lines of the road.  You finally see your competition’s taillights ahead, so you’re faced with a few options: You can hang back, though doing so might make you miss a shortcut or slow down. You can try to overtake. Or you can accelerate and get right on their tail. In startups, we talk a lot about pioneering innovations (overtaking) and accelerating right up close to your competitors (fast following), but very little about when to go slow.  
    Sometimes, in order to learn what is really important, you have to hold off on the (even ostensibly successful) things that your competition is doing. You have to hang back. And for all of the prestige that comes with going fast, going slow is sometimes the smart move. It’s fun to be the company that does something first — there’s a rush to it. But you need to pick your risks wisely.  You can see this strategy at work in Apple’s HomePod. People’s complaints about the HomePod boil down to what you would expect of the first iteration of an Apple product in 2018:  
    But those who see the HomePod as a sign of Apple’s decline are ignoring that the iPhone — one of the most important technological innovations ever — started out the same way: slowly. When it launched, the iPhone . . . made phone calls. That was its core value proposition. It could run web apps through the included Safari browser, but there was no expectation of adding support for native apps. (Steve Jobs thought the mobile web was the future.) Jobs assented to the App Store only after months of complaints from employees, investors, and third-party developers — all of whom had seen two things:
      
    The second version of the iPhone got a native app, SDK, and the rest is history. By giving people a mini version of OSX inside a phone, Apple had learned a lot about what people would do with such a device. By the second version, the company could give users what they wanted.  Apple critic John Gruber’s formulation of the basic Apple product mantra — What if we turned ____ into a small advanced computer? — has been employed by just about every one of Apple’s product releases since. The first version of everything is a test. The second is a platform. What gets them from version one to version two is understanding how people use the given tools. There’s another truth in people’s response to the HomePod: The way we think about competition is skewed. We prize innovators, we respect fast followers, and we assume that anyone else is too slow to reap any benefits at all.  The truth is that moving slowly is crucial and takes courage.  Some critics of the HomePod point to the ostensibly superior “intelligence” of Amazon’s Echo and the Google Home. They don’t see Apple’s late entrance as a halfhearted intro into an already-hot market — they see it as a fundamental misalignment. Where Amazon and Google have built intelligent virtual assistants, the thinking goes, Apple has built a mere smart speaker. What this perspective ignores is that many people use their Echos and Homes merely as smart speakers — maybe to set kitchen timers or check the weather.  
    While Siri may not best Alexa or Home in a Turing test, it may not need to. Apple has learned from their competition and has found a way to go after a new, huge, profitable market: high-end speakers. Apple is competing directly with Sonus with the HomePod. And once they build out the Apps and Airplay 2, HomePod will take off and be crazy successful. And it was only by moving slowly and entering the market “late” that Apple could know this. Apple’s constant rate of execution sometimes blinds us to the fact that, as a company, they move quite slowly when necessary. And between the HomePod and AirPods and the iPhone, we’re sometimes blinded to the fact that Apple innovates just about as much as they copy, and real skill lies in knowing when to do what.  
    By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.  
    Co-founder and CEO of @wistia. Things I love: creative brands, work/life balance, not being able to control the volume of my voice, disaster movies.  
    Co-founder and CEO of @wistia. Things I love: creative brands, work/life balance, not being able to control the volume of my voice, disaster movies.  
    
  URL : https://savagethoughts.com/when-your-competition-accelerates-have-the-courage-to-go-slow-53242686393?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website