  Remember chatbots, the Next Big Thing of 2016? According to Sam Lessin, “the 2016 bot paradigm shift is going to be far more disruptive and interesting than the last decade’s move from Web to mobile apps.” And Chris Messina predicted, “you and I will be talking to brands and companies over Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, Telegram, Slack, and elsewhere before year’s end, and will find it normal.”  
    This was exciting — enough so that I joined Facebook as design manager for the Messenger bot platform. It was a tough decision: I wasn’t ready to move on from my previous role at Google. But an opportunity to shape the next generation of software development…it was too intriguing to pass up.  
    But the predicted paradigm shift didn’t materialize. We look back at our wide-eyed optimism and laugh, chalking it up to the Silicon Valley hype cycle. Digit’s Ethan Bloch summed it up, quoted in a recent Inc article:  
    Ouch. So what happened? Are chatbots dead?  
    There were legitimate reasons to get excited back then:  
    With all those factors pointing the way, why didn’t messaging platforms take off? We can only speculate, but here are some contributing factors:  
    When Apple launched the iPhone SDK in 2008, we knew what an app looked like. The iPhone’s built-in apps had established best practices, both for how a smartphone app worked and for the sorts of things it supported well. The SDK launched a year after the iPhone, so those first developers had well-understood standards from which to work — as well as mature developer tools that had grown up with the Mac SDK.  
    The messaging platforms that launched in 2015–2016 lacked those advantages. Early bots seemed more like preliminary steps into the brave new world than instructive examples.  
    So should Slack, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Kik, and others have built their own built-in bots to lead the way? Should they have gotten more proactive with their bot funds and incubators, hiring mentors to educate participants in the Way of the Bot, or supplying engineering and design resources? Funded Strategic Bot Initiatives at high-profile partners? In my opinion yes, yes, and yes. When it comes to platforms, developers are the users; and we don’t rely on our users to understand why or how to use our products. We have to show them.  
    And what about WeChat in China? As it turns out, while WeChat is a messaging app with a successful platform, it’s not really a messaging platform. Much of it boils down to apps that can run inside of WeChat. As Dan Grover (then at WeChat) wrote in 2016, “The key wins for WeChat…largely came from streamlining away app installation, login, payment, and notifications, optimizations having nothing to do with the conversational metaphor in its UI.” In other words, WeChat addressed many of the opportunities listed above, but did so without restricting itself to the messaging paradigm.  
    Bots weren’t really going to replace apps, any more than apps replaced the web. (The web still accounts for 13% of mobile time spent, a full decade after the iPhone launched.) By talking about bots in such grandiose terms, we discouraged their development:  
    It’s easy to send and receive individual text messages—a competent developer can set up a basic bot in a few minutes—but hard to conduct a conversation:  
    In other words, there are technical and UX problems that limit the efficacy of a text-based, conversational UI.  
    But their impact was also far greater than it needed to be, because we limited our own vision of what a messaging experience could be.  
    Bots, chatbots, conversational commerce…whatever you called them, they were generally defined as messaging with a business or service. Chris Messina defined conversational commerce as “utilizing chat, messaging, or other natural language interfaces (i.e. voice) to interact with people, brands, or services and bots that heretofore have had no real place in the bidirectional, asynchronous messaging context.”  
    To many people, this simple definition seemed like an advantage. Developers could move fast, freed from much of the complexity of app development. Usability would improve: we all know how to message.  
    But developers ended up trading one type of complexity for another; and users suddenly found themselves typing out instructions long-hand instead of tapping and swiping. Here’s Dan Grover again:  
    So WeChat’s success relied, in part, on recognizing that messaging platforms needn’t restrict themselves purely to messaging UI. And what got me really excited was the notion of integrating the two: combining the efficiency and interactivity of a GUI with the familiarity, humanity, and permanence of a chat. Here I am in 2016, shortly after joining Facebook:  
    And the US-based messaging platforms have added GUI features: Slack’s popup dialogs, Microsoft’s rich cards, Facebook’s structured templates and web-view overlay. Yet the overall, chat-centric narrative hasn’t changed. Why? I suspect it’s a combination of factors:  
    Of course, a messaging experience can happen outside a messaging app. Freed from those constraints, one can experiment with all sorts of hybrid approaches. Some of the most innovative bot experiences aren’t actually bots:  
    Just acquired by Credit Karma, Penny is a competitor to Mint with messaging front and center. It provides chatty advice and alerts, but also an account dashboard and transaction list. Users get the benefit of a friendly financial assistant, alongside the efficiency of perusing their finances the traditional way.  
    In 2016 Quartz launched a bot-like news app, with an innovative bite-sized approach to content and a chat interaction that’s purely single-tap replies.  
    More recently they’ve launched a Facebook Messenger bot; but the app provides a more tailored experience for those who download it: a dedicated notification channel, easy access to full articles from the thread, and a UI devoid of anything beyond what’s needed for news. The separate app also gives Quartz the ability to advertise.  
    Subscription clothing service Trunk Club (acquired by Nordstrom in 2014) has an app that mixes chat and GUI in two ways:  
    Much of this functionality is powered by Layer, a company with its own twist on messaging platforms. Rather than entice developers into their app, Layer provides them with tools and services to build messaging experiences on their own. So companies can innovate around chat without starting from scratch. Layer also mitigates the app-install hurdle by making their tools work across native apps, mobile web, and desktop web.  
    For businesses like Trunk Club, Layer is interesting not merely for the customer-facing experience but also for that of the stylist or other customer representative. There, Layer offers CRM functionality to streamline the human-powered side of the conversation, with quick access to customer profiles and tools to drop richer interactions into the thread as easily as text.  
    Launched in 2016, Foursquare’s Marsbot provides food and drink recommendations via chat. It takes requests but also recommends proactively, building on Foursquare’s ability to accurately detect not just what block you’re on, but in which restaurant you’ve just sat down.  
    Marsbot operates over SMS (and thus could work over any messaging platform). But none of today’s platforms provides access to background location, so Marsbot requires users to install an app. It sits in the background and does its thing, while all user interactions occur over SMS. That’s clever: Foursquare still has to get over the app-install hurdle, but sidesteps the engagement challenge that follows — as well as the need to build a chat experience.  
    You’ve almost certainly interacted with Intercom, as a customer-service chat widget in the lower right corner of websites. By embedding this widget, developers can use Intercom to manage their customer service and even get some analytics (e.g., filtering customers for a particular device or action).  
    Intercom and Trunk Club are both great examples of focused domains (customer service and high-touch subscription services) that seem promising for messaging, because conversation is so central. Facebook would seem to agree: in late 2017 they launched their Customer Chat Plugin, which looks like a simple competitor to Intercom.  
    Surveying these examples, three models of interaction and integration emerge:  
    Of course these aren’t the only possible models, but they cover a lot of ground. And if you’re contemplating a messaging experience in your own products, framing your decision in terms of these models may be valuable to shed light on your needs, and on which platforms may be appropriate.  
    So where will we go from here? My predictions follow, with full recognition that predictions are often wrong:  
    The hype is over. The general sentiment: messaging platforms weren’t a thing after all. But that doesn’t mean everyone has moved on: bots, and the consultancies and meta-platforms that support them, are very much alive, particularly in certain niches:  
    But the lack of widespread enthusiasm can’t help but affect the platform-makers themselves. It seems likely they’ll divest resources, and that’s a vicious circle: less platform investment means less developer interest, means less platform investment, and so on.  
    The current media storm around privacy and social networks plays into this as well: Companies and developers will be that much more reluctant to build a business beholden to a social platform.  
    There’s an old saying that left to develop long enough, any tech product will turn into an email app. In today’s mobile-centric world, we might want to change that to a messaging app.  
    Messaging isn’t going away. We’ll continue to text our fingers off, and messaging services will continue to evolve. That, in turn, will influence anyone building a product for which conversation and customer relationships matter (read: just about everything). And even the least chat-like of tools provides that opportunity: Nobody would accuse Microsoft Word of being a messaging app, but what are Google Docs comments if not a chat thread?  
    So I anticipate that more and more products will introduce a messaging component; and that trend will provide a fertile ground for innovation. Which, in turn, provides an ongoing opportunity for companies like Layer to facilitate that innovation.  
    As more people message each other, it’s inevitable that more businesses will want to message customers. That could involve human-powered accounts, bots, or bespoke apps —but any way you slice it, customer relationships matter. To support this, messaging providers will want to invest in:  
    In some ways, the messaging landscape today isn’t so different from the pre-mobile days. The same regional network effects reign: Replace Facebook with Yahoo, SMS with AIM, WhatsApp with Windows Live Messenger — and divide the user base by 10 — and you might be in 2007.  
    Which makes me wonder if the names will be different again in ten years. Arguably it took mobile to disrupt the last group of incumbents, and perhaps there isn’t another mobile-ish revolution coming. But who knows?  
    Hype is never realistic, but it’s rarely empty. As an industry, we surely overestimated the impact bots would have. And we did a disservice by equating chatbot with messaging app: things get so much more interesting when we focus on the latter.  
    I wouldn’t want to be raising money for a chatbot startup right now, but messaging isn’t going anywhere because conversation isn’t going anywhere. NLP and AI will continue to improve. Developers and platforms will continue to experiment with different flavors of conversational experience. And whether the hype cycle comes around again or not, it’s valuable to consider conversation, in all its forms, as part of the product toolkit.  
    Disclosures: While at Facebook, I worked on several of the Messenger features mentioned here. I’ve had a casual relationship with Layer over the years of its existence, though we’ve agreed to see other companies.  
    By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.  
    VP Product Design at Heap in San Francisco. Former PM and design manager at Google, Facebook, TechCrunch, Emu, Yahoo. Behavioral science enthusiast. I’m hiring.  
    
  URL : https://medium.com/@dfeldman/chatbots-what-happened-dcc3f91a512c?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website