  I write a lot about product strategy, using Netflix as an example so that others can learn from the company’s success and failure. I often highlight that half of Netflix’s high-level product strategies fail. I do this to help product leaders understand how hard it is to launch and grow startups. I also think it’s important to communicate how challenging it is to blend art and science, to effectively capture “lightning in a bottle,” which is how I describe the challenge of building products using consumer science techniques.  
    This essay focuses on one of Netflix’s mistakes and tries to answer the question: Why did Netflix fail so often? The simple answer:  
    1.) Our humanity clouds our judgment, and  
    2.) Inventing the future is hard  
    I wrote this essay so you will be more conscious of the things that cloud your judgment. With a little luck and increased discipline, these ideas should make inventing the future a bit easier for you.  
    Netflix launched “Friends” in 2004. That year, Facebook grew from one million to six million members. Because of Facebook’s meteoric rise, the persistent question from Silicon Valley venture capitalists was, “What’s your social strategy?”  
    With Friends, we believed we could delight customers in hard-to-copy, margin-enhancing ways. Netflix members would delight in movie ideas from friends, we would build a hard-to-copy network effect, and movie suggestions would be cheaper as friends suggested “long-tail” movies to one another.  
    While we hoped to improve retention, our easier-to-move proxy metric was the percentage of members who connected to at least one friend. At launch, we engaged two percent of members, and after four years, we got to eight percent. But in 2010 — I was at Chegg by that time — Netflix killed Friends because they recognized they needed at least twenty percent of members to engage. Below this threshold, it’s hard to improve retention in a meaningful way. After nearly six years of effort, Netflix was far from that threshold.  
    Yes, Friends failed to get big enough to improve retention, but looking back, I think the real question is, “Why did we persist so long?” Here’s my answer:  
    Here’s what I hope you will take away from Netflix’s ill-advised persistence in the face of long-term failure:  
    Netflix made other mistakes — a long-term investment in the hypothesis that a more entertaining experience would improve retention, that unique movie-finding tools would create both customer and shareholder value, and that building our own “Netflix-Ready” TV-connected hardware device would do the same. You can trace these failures back to many of the themes above, too.  
    Skillful product leadership depends on rare judgment about product, people, and business. Consumer science — the process of forming and evaluating hypotheses through existing data, qualitative research, surveys, and A/B tests — requires finely-tuned intuition. And in the end, building successful consumer tech products is wicked hard.  
    You are likely engaged in a project today where your humanity obscures a disciplined evaluation of the project’s merit. Take a moment to reevaluate, discounting both executive-level support and conventional wisdom. Remove your “blinders” by setting an objective goal, taking stock in your pride of ownership, and asking, “What should we invest in today, irrespective of past investment decisions?” Last, if it’s clear you are working on a failed experiment, dare to communicate this and then “scrape the barnacle.” With intuition fine-tuned by recent failure, you will dramatically improve your odds for future success.  
    Thanks for reading, and if you enjoyed this essay, please “clap” as it makes it easier for others to find my writing.  
    As always, I appreciate your feedback. Please click here to complete the Net Promoter Score survey. (It only takes one minute.)  
    Again, thanks!  
    Gib  
    Gibson Biddle  
    P.S. Here are my other product management essays:  
    Many thanks to Michael Sippey, John Ciancutti, John McMahon, Michael Hart, Michael Rubin, Tom Willerer, Hope Gurion, Ashita Achuthan, Suzanne DuFore, John Russell, Florian Fischetti, Dan Olsen, Nir Eyal, Sarah Bernard, Filip Kaliszan, and Ha Nguyen for feedback and editing help.  
      
    
  URL : https://medium.com/@gibsonbiddle/9bbb9cb98608?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website