  One big debate in venture capital is whether it is best to focus on big existing markets or on great teams and products going after speculative markets.  
    The argument for the first is that only huge and attractive markets can support hyper-fast-growing, venture-scale companies. However, the argument for the second is that the best companies have often created new markets or expanded markets in unexpected ways.  
    VCs land on all sides of this debate. Just recently, a discussion unfolded on Twitter about it, and a few people that I deeply respect chimed in on the topic:  
    I chimed in with my thoughts, too. But personally, I think a lot of this talk about markets is confusing. Here’s why the NextView Ventures team and I don’t look at market size when evaluating companies.  
    When people ask me what we look for in a potential investment, I tell them we care about two things:  
    You’ll notice no market size mentioned.  
    Market size is just a lazy proxy for the magnitude of market demand. But market demand is actually a function of:  
    The single most costly mistake that VCs make is confusing one for the other. I’ve made this mistake more times than I care to admit.  
    In fact, I almost made this mistake when considering our seed investment in Dia&Co. Dia is a fashion company focused on plus-size women. The company very much exhibits JDCC. But in discussions with Nadia and Lydia , I remember remarking that the market for plus-size women’s apparel is surprisingly small compared to women’s fashion overall (something like 17% of the overall women’s fashion market). I suggested they consider that constraint when building and capitalizing the business.  
    But Nadia was quick to correct this view. She told me that market demand is substantially greater than the current market size. Half of the women in the United States are size 14 and above, and the current solutions for their fashion needs are far inferior to what is available to non-plus-size women.  
    Because the team tapped into this market demand, Dia has grown remarkably quickly and resonates deeply with its mass-market customer base.  
    Examples like Dia are why NextView defines our Everyday Economy thesis as a search for ubiquitous or habitual products with JDCC business models (instead of just saying “big markets.”)  
    If products have the potential to be ubiquitous, then you are addressing mass-market, everyday needs. This tends to be a great signal of what ultimate market demand might be, even if the market doesn’t exist yet.  
    If products have the potential to be habitual, then you are addressing a very intense need or desire. This also tends to be a great signal of market demand, even if the company seems to be starting off in a weird niche.  
    If that sounds like what you’re working on, I hope you’ll get in touch.  
    From a quick cheer to a standing ovation, clap to show how much you enjoyed this story.  
    Cofounder of NextView. Husband to Nancy. Dad to Josie and Clara  
    Stories, analyses & resources to help seed-stage founders redesign the everyday. Brought to you by your friends at @NextViewVC.  
    
  URL : https://bettereveryday.vc/market-size-doesnt-equal-market-demand-4f213e5e1be7?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website