  The format, made popular by Snapchat and Instagram, is the native genre of glass rectangles.  
    Facebook’s chief product officer, Chris Cox, made a remarkable announcement during a keynote at the company’s big conference this week: “The increase in the Stories format,” he explained, “is on a path to surpass feeds as the primary way people share things with their friends sometime next year.”  
    This caught me off guard. I have been ignoring Stories for years, deeming it a trifle for young people. Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, added Stories in 2016, essentially copying it from Snapchat, which inaugurated the format. Facebook itself added the feature in 2017, and WhatsApp, also owned by Facebook, has a similar feature called Statuses.  
    “Story” is a terrible name for this feature, because it’s so broad as to descend into meaninglessness. In ordinary parlance, a story is a generic name for a narrative account of something. But a Story, of the Instagram and Snapchat sort, is something much more specific. It’s a collection of images and short videos, with optional overlays and effects, that a user can add to over time, but which disappears after 24 hours. Users view a Story in sequence, either waiting out a programmed delay between images or manually advancing to the next.  
    That’s about the most bizarrely precise definition of “story” I’ve ever heard. But even if Stories aren’t really stories, they deserve careful attention, especially given Cox’s warning. Like them or hate them, Stories might be the first true smartphone media format. And that might mean that they will become the dominant format of the future.  
    For 25 years after the web commercialized, the things people made online—for home pages, blogs, and eventually social-media sites—happened separately from the devices used to view and interact with that material after publication. A photograph would have to be scanned and uploaded, for example. Text, too, would often be authored somewhere else, then uploaded or emailed.  
    Eventually, services like Facebook and Twitter tied composition to the platform on which it would be shared. But even then, the process involves translation. When Facebook’s post field asks, “What’s on your mind?” the poster must review their world, process it, and then transform it into writing, video, or sound.  
    But since 2007, people have been filtering their lives through the window of the smartphone. That name is vestigial now, because it’s only incidental that an iPhone or a Pixel is a telephone. Instead, it’s a frame that surrounds everything that is possible and knowable. A rectangle, as I’ve started calling it.  
    The rectangle now frames experience. Information is rectangle-shaped, retrieved from searches in Google or apps or voice assistants. Personal communication comes in the form of a list of bubbles spilling down a rectangle. The physical world can be accessed by a map scaled to the boundaries of the rectangle, which can also provide way-finding through it. Music, movies, and television appear on these screens, and increasingly there alone. The rectangle is also an imaging device, capable of capturing a view of the world in front of it and the operator behind it.  
    Media formats—the actual things people create, use, and share—have been adapting to the smartphone as a platform for both authoring and display. But they’ve been remarkably slow. The 16:9 aspect ratio of most phones makes it easy to watch movies and television, but it also creates a tension between the “natural” way to hold the phone—upright—and the sideways format. The camera continued to produce native images and movies in a 4:3 aspect ratio, that of a pre-HD television.  
    Instagram offered the first strong signal that these holdovers of prior media were insufficient. To obviate the need to chose an orientation for photos, Instagram pictures are square, recalling the six-by-six-centimeter negatives of medium-format cameras, like the Hasselblad. But this move, along with its simulated-film filters, ties the service to the long lineage of fine-art photography. Why do you think Stephen Shore likes the service so much?  
    Not so, a Story. It is composed in the heretofore ghastly 9:16 aspect ratio. This is an unholy view, like a widescreen television on its side. But it’s also the standard view of the smartphone display. Taking a photo or video in this orientation clearly and quickly signals that the rectangle is its source.  
    It’s not just photos, either. Screenshots from the apps where people spend more and more of their time, in messaging conversations, for example, also take this shape. In fact, this tendency drove one of Facebook’s newly announced features: a software integration for Stories that would allow direct posting from an app. A song playing in Spotify, for example, will be able to be inserted into a Story natively, with a link back to the track in question.  
    Stories is not a technology, nor is it a feature. It is a media format, or even a genre, in the way that a magazine or a murder mystery or a 30-minute television program is. This is also why it’s a little silly to worry about who “copied” Stories from whom, since the whole point of formats and genres is to develop independent of single tools of creation and dissemination. The different styles of Story illustrate the form’s broad uses. On Snapchat, Stories are more informal, making use of the face-filters and geotags common to that platform. On Instagram, filters and Boomerangs and neon text and the like are more frequently used, as that platform’s heavily composed manner warrants.  
    And that’s also why “Story” is such a terrible name for this format. Contemporary culture’s obsession with storytelling runs so deep, everything has become framed as storytelling, even when it’s clearly not. Most Stories are not storytelling. They are sequenced, which is one of the definitions of narration: an account of events. But sequence is not sufficient to create narrative, and many Stories feel like random collections of unrelated materials. Most of the ones I see on Facebook and Instagram are one- or two-image sequences, hardly enough to play out a day-in-the-life, let alone a moment, anymore.  
    They are chains of vignettes, as seen through the frame of the smartphone’s rectangle. Moving rectangles, maybe we should call them instead, after moving images, another name for the category that contains film, television, video, and the like.  
    This category error makes it easy to misunderstand, overlook, or dismiss Stories. Writing at BuzzFeed recently, Katie Notopoulos lamented the rise of Stories, arguing that it’s suffocating the feed. “Our feeds have grown stale,” Notopoulos writes, “littered with ads and celebrities and influencers: people who are still posting actively, professionally, obligatorily.”  
    What Notopoulos might be feeling is the dissonance of feed-life giving way to Story-life online. The “Story” part—the 24-hour narrative sequence comprised of individual images and moving images—is far less important than the mobile-native format. Every time I look at a Story I feel dissociated, as if I’m looking at something that almost makes sense but yet eludes it. Then again, I don’t really use these services, so I asked my son, an experienced Snapchat and Instagram user, to tell me what I was doing wrong.  
    “I think disassociation is sort of the point,” he said. “It’s the same reason people go to Coachella just to take photos of themselves there all day.” The liveness of smartphone-authorship, combined with the ephemerality of the Story format, makes it a catalog of the experience of holding and looking through a rectangle almost all the time.  
    This makes me think of a famous definition of photography by the prolific 20th-century street photographer Garry Winogrand: “A still photograph is the illusion of a literal description of how a camera ‘saw’ a piece of time and space.” Likewise, a Story is the illusion of what your smartphone saw. Or better, of what the hybrid you-and-your-smartphone saw—as if there was a you without a smartphone, anymore.  
    Once again, there are different versions of that phenomenon. The Instagram version, as my son concluded, is “about pretending you’re living a lifestyle that is so exclusive you can only get a glimpse into it for a few hours before it disappears.” On Snapchat, it’s mostly a series of personal moments for your friends. Facebook wants to develop more of these styles of moving rectangle. Cox even mentioned a few during the keynote: letting groups of soccer parents create a collaborative story, or helping friends construct a record of events, like at a concert. These examples are social, which is no surprise for Facebook. But you can also imagine many others as the shift from images to rectangled images proceeds.  
    “Photography is not about the thing photographed,” Winogrand once said. “It is about how that thing looks photographed.” And likewise, a Story is not about the things sequenced in the story. It is about how those things look through the sensors and software of a smartphone. It’s a dubious sensation, to stare down the barrel of that future. On the one hand, the smartphone is clearly popular and important enough to overthrow its ancestors, replacing them while incorporating the DNA of their media. But on the other hand, the smartphone can already feel like an oppressive, hazardous window onto the world.  
    No matter how you feel about the matter, it’s easy to guess what Facebook thinks: If that future is likely, or even just possible, better to design for it than to miss the boat. As my colleague Alexis Madrigal recently put it, “Facebook wants to be the identity layer of everything as the company accelerates the merging of our digital and physical selves.” And the growth in Stories, Cox concluded during the keynote, “is really insane.”  
    
    Jeff VanderMeer discusses how writing fiction about environmental crises may jolt readers out of complacency.
  
    Kanye West wants freedom—white freedom.  
    I could only have seen it there, on the waxed hardwood floor of my elementary-school auditorium, because I was young then, barely 7 years old, and cable had not yet come to the city, and if it had, my father would not have believed in it. Yes, it had to have happened like this, like folk wisdom, because when I think of that era, I do not think of MTV, but of the futile attempt to stay awake and navigate the yawning whiteness of Friday Night Videos, and I remember that there were no VCRs among us then, and so it would have had to have been there that I saw it, in the auditorium that adjoined the cafeteria, where after the daily serving of tater tots and chocolate milk, a curtain divider was pulled back and all the kids stormed the stage. And I would have been there among them, awkwardly uprocking, or worming in place, or stiffly snaking, or back-spinning like a broken rotor, and I would have looked up and seen a kid, slightly older, facing me, smiling to himself, then moving across the floor by popping up alternating heels, gliding in reverse, walking on the moon.  
    Childish Gambino’s sensational “This Is America” video implicates the viewer in the misuse of black art.  
    If you search for “This Is America” on Twitter, you find not only a gushing river of well-deserved praise for Donald Glover’s new work, which has quickly become the most talked-about music video of recent memory. You also find Trump supporters using the moment to spread their messages. The hashtag #ThisIsAmerica sits next to a rant about the deep state. It sits next to a sneering meme about Hillary Clinton. It sits next to a picture of white pioneers, shared by a “European rights activist,” who says, “Most of the people who built America looked like this.”  
    Trending hashtags get hijacked by unsympathetic causes as a matter of course, but Glover knew what he was getting into with the name “This Is America.” The defining of a nation is the essential task of politics, and Glover’s definition has now been made clear. America is a place where black people are chased and gunned down, and it is a place where black people dance and sing to distract—themselves, maybe, but also the country at large—from that carnage. America is a room in which violence and celebration happen together, and the question of which one draws the eye is one of framing, and of what the viewer wants to see.  
    Why would the group select the Iran-Contra figure as its new leader? Because its strategy of defensiveness and stalemate has worked well so far.  
    Sometimes it feels as though the current moment in American history is unique. At other times, there’s a disquieting déjà vu—for example, this week, when Daniel Ortega, the Nicaragua Sandinista leader, and Ollie North, the American Marine who funneled weapons to his right-wing opponents the Contras, are both in the news.  
    Ortega, now president once again, is holding on for bare political life amid protests in his country. North, it turns out, is about to take over another controversial, oft-protested body: The National Rifle Association announced Monday that North will be its next president.  
    From a certain angle, North’s ascension is a peculiar choice for the NRA, both given the current political moment and given North’s own history. North came to national prominence in the Iran-Contra affair, in which the U.S. illegally sold weapons to Iran—violating an arms embargo—then funneled the proceeds to the Contras, who were fighting Ortega’s left-wing government. North, a Vietnam veteran, was then a lieutenant colonel serving on the National Security Council. He was charged with various felonies related to Iran-Contra and convicted of three. The New York Times editorial board tartly panned his verdict: “Oliver North won’t go to prison even though he lied to Congress, shredded White House documents and accepted a $14,000 security fence from an Iran-contra arms profiteer.” As it turned out, North’s convictions were reversed and vacated altogether because a judge ruled that the prosecution had used testimony North offered Congress under an immunity agreement.  
    Will it work?  
    Religions have long been the dominant suppliers of rituals, gamely stepping in with an answer to every question from How do I celebrate the birth of my baby boy? to How can I transfer my own sins onto a live chicken? But in an age of increasing religious disaffiliation, these rituals now feel hollow to millions of people. And even when they don’t, there’s a wide range of new experiences for which the traditional rituals offer no script: How do I cope with my rage after receiving a parking ticket? How can I keep a smart car from exacerbating my loneliness and narcissism? What can I do to mourn the death of my laptop?  
    Although there is no single agreed-upon definition, a ritual is typically a deliberate action performed in a set sequence that improves our emotional state, by reframing an experience in a way that feels meaningful.  
    Unelected and unpaid, first ladies often struggle to develop their own policy goals. But even so, the case of Melania Trump stands out.  
    Melania Trump is an unusual first lady: It was a role she apparently did not want; she delayed moving into the White House for several months to allow her son, Barron, to finish school in New York City; and she has had limited public presence for much of her husband’s presidency. All told, Melania Trump hasn’t seemed enthusiastic about her role.  
    But speaking in the White House’s Rose Garden on Monday, Trump took on the mantle of her predecessors: She announced a new initiative called “Be Best,” which will focus on children’s well-being and social-media use, and the opioid epidemic’s effect on families. “In my time as first lady of the United States, I will make every effort to ‘be best’ by championing the many successful well-being programs in existence today and teach the tools and skills for emotional, social, and physical well-being,” she told the crowd. As she described in a video that played before her speech, “I want to nurture and protect the most valuable part of our society and our future: children.”  
    Brought on to Trump’s legal team to negotiate with Robert Mueller and be a public face, he seems to be acting more broadly as an attorney and strategist, a risky choice.  
    Despite a disastrous debut last week in his new role as a member of President Trump’s legal team—including making contradictory statements, revealing White House untruths, and being publicly upbraided by his client—Rudy Giuliani was back at it over the weekend.  
    It’s unclear what Giuliani’s aim was. If he was hoping to clean up his mess and make the president look good, he didn’t have a great morning. If he was hoping to make news, he succeeded. Among other statements, Giuliani said that Trump would not have to comply if Special Counsel Robert Mueller subpoenaed him (this is debatable, but most lawyers agree it would not hold up); admitted he was shaky on matters of both fact and statute—“I am focused on the law more than the facts right now,” he said in an interview with CNN Sunday; and seemed to call the president a fool.  
    The recent eruptions from several volcanic vents in a residential neighborhood on Hawaii’s Big Island have prompted the evacuation of thousands of residents.  
    The recent eruptions from several volcanic vents in a residential neighborhood on Hawaii’s Big Island have prompted the evacuation of thousands of residents. The Hawaiian Volcanoes Observatory said eight lava fissures had opened under Leilani Estates over the past few days. The opening of the fissures and lava flow from Kilauea Volcano follow a series of earthquakes, including a magnitude-6.9 quake on Friday, and the earlier collapse of a nearby crater, emptying the lake of lava within. The unfolding disaster is unpredictable, and may take a very long time to calm down enough to allow residents to return.  
    Bariatric surgery works, but hundreds of thousands of eligible patients can’t get it.  
    In Mississippi, more than 37 percent of adults are obese, making it the second-most obese state in the nation. But Mississippi is also one of two states, along with Montana, that doesn’t cover bariatric surgery in its Medicaid program, which serves 760,000 people.  
    One popular type of bariatric surgery, the gastric sleeve, costs between $20,000 and $35,000 without insurance, experts told me. It shrinks the stomach to about the size of a banana, changing the body’s hunger hormones and reducing a person’s natural weight—one they don’t have to starve themselves to stick to. For the morbidly obese, diet and exercise don’t usually have this same effect on their own. (People who lost hundreds of pounds sweating it out on the TV show The Biggest Loser, for example, tended to gain it all back.)  
    In one scenario, the Islamic Republic slowly restarts its nuclear program—and further destabilizes the region.  
    Last fall, a group of Israeli and American experts simulated what could happen next if Donald Trump were to do what he may well do Tuesday afternoon: reinstate sanctions lifted as part of the 2015 international nuclear deal with Iran. When the simulation concluded after nine hours, it wasn’t with a triumphant United States and a submissive Iran. While Trump argues that the U.S. “got nothing” from the “horrible agreement,” the exercise conducted by the Israel-based Institute for National Security Studies and the U.S.-based Rand Corporation suggested that nixing the agreement wouldn’t get America much either.  
    The participants, who included a former Israeli defense minister, a former Israeli ambassador to Russia, and a prior U.S. ambassador to Israel, shuttled between conference rooms and the cafeteria at INSS’s offices in Tel Aviv, playing the roles of key actors such as the United States, Iran, Israel, Europe, Russia, and China. And the European and Russian parties to the agreement each scrambled to salvage it by pressing Iran for concessions on issues such as its ballistic-missile program and meddlesome activities in the Middle East; Russia even dangled a bilateral defense treaty in front of Iran as an enticement. But Trump remained unsatisfied and European companies held back from doing business in Iran.  
    Democrats are concerned about the CIA nominee's record on torture, but fear a Trump loyalist could be the alternative.  
    Democrats are concerned about the CIA nominee's record on torture, but fear a Trump loyalist could be the alternative.  
    Two young girls escape Syria in an intimate short film, told largely through home movies.  
    An enslaved woman who jumped from a building in 1815 is later revealed to be the plaintiff in a successful lawsuit for her freedom.  
    After a lifetime of intestinal problems, biohacker Josiah Zayner declares war on his own body's microbes.  
    Support 160 years of independent journalism.  
      
     TheAtlantic.com Copyright (c) 2018 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.  
    
  URL : https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2018/05/smartphone-stories-snapchat-instagram-facebook/559517/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website