  Saturday, May 12th, I had the enormous honor of being the commencement speaker at my Alma Mater (CS Eng’97), University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, on the 150th anniversary of UIUC’s very first class.  
    My heart was overflowing with pride looking over the veritable sea of orange and blue in full academic regalia on the Memorial Field, and a giant cheering crowd of relatives and friends in the stands.I am not sure this was my best speech or delivery ever, but it was certainly the most heartfelt one.   
    At some point, I will find the video of the thing, but for now here’s the full text. The video is here: https://mediaspace.illinois.edu/media/t/1_il5k6pi4 – I am on at 54 minutes in. Full text is also below.   
    Huge thanks to Elizabeth Allin, Lia Ballard, Brooks Hosfield, and the ever-faithful Ryan Metcalf, who helped me get this written, polished, practiced, and delivered, stress-free (though not for them!) and on time.  
    First of all, I’d like to thank the University, and the Chancellor, and the President, for inviting me to be here.  
    Thank you to my family, who braved all kinds of travel to come.   
    I cannot overstate how honored and proud I feel to be at this podium. In this hot wind, breathing in the familiar aroma of South Farms, and addressing all of you.  
    I loved my time at U of I, and I take great pride in being an Illinois alumnus! And, I am happy to report, your Chambana-conferred degree will serve as a badge of honor out there in the real world.  
    I graduated 21 years ago, which sounds like a century to me, and feels like yesterday. So while I don’t feel especially qualified dispensing “life advice”, I do have a few experiences on you – some good, some awful. I will share three of these with you, hoping you’ll find them amusing, and maybe even useful.  
    The first one is about taking risks and getting lucky.   
    I got insanely lucky.   
    I was born in the Soviet Union. By the time I reached my teens, in the late ‘80s, the country was being held together with shoestring and bubblegum.   
    But because it was Soviet-made bubble gum, it was made out of tree bark and superglue.   
    Worried about political and economic instability and the rise of anti-Semitism, my family thought of immigrating. United States allowed us to enter as political refugees. And for that, we are forever grateful.  
    Meanwhile, in 1986, the Chernobyl Nuclear Power station blew itself up in the worst nuclear accident ever. Which was unfortunate, because Kiev, where I was born, was only 90 miles away.  
    Leaving everything behind and moving to America felt like a huge risk, but the nuclear disaster close by really motivated my family to get moving. We made it to the US in 1991, with about $600 between the five of us.   
    I was 16, so I got to experience Chicago Public Schools for two years and was pretty confused about college selection process. My high school guidance counsellor suggested U of I serendipitously, because my two-year streak of amazing science fair victories made me eligible for some sweet state scholarships, and a heavily subsidized student loan.  
    At this very time, National Center for Supercomputing Applications, right here on campus, launched Mosaic, the first graphical web browser that would soon change science, commerce, information, learning,.. everything.   
    And I was going to study the most relevant discipline for this new age, at the most relevant place to study it.  
    And that is how I ended up at the University of Illinois, on Quad Day 1993, in blazing 100+-degree heat, wearing a Soviet-made flannel shirt buttoned all the way up, and sporting a medium-size fro.   
    I walked up to a gaggle of similarly smartly-dressed nerds crowding around a computer, squinting in the bright sun.   
    And I knew I’d found my people, and their land was called Digital Computer Lab.   
    During those glorious days in DCL, I didn’t sleep very much – but when I slept, I often slept in a chair, in front of a computer.   
    Once, as I was dozing off at the ACM office, after another programming marathon, too tired to go get another Mountain Dew, entirely out of junk food, these two engineering students walked by.  
    I sort of knew them, but not well. One was a year ahead of me, the other was one year behind.   
    They casually asked me what I was doing up so late, and I showed off the latest computer graphics project. They were up late because they were going to start a company.   
    Since I enjoyed programming so much, and appeared to be able to live on sugary drinks and almost no sleep – they said – how would I like to join them as their first Vice President of Engineering?  
    It felt risky. I could have just gone downstairs to the candy machine, to procure another Dew and Snickers. Thus rejuvenated, I could have just gone back to building fun academic projects, graduated, stayed on for grad school, gotten a doctorate, and probably became a Computer Science professor, perhaps even a good one.  
    (I am fairly sure my Mom is still kinda hoping for this version to happen.)  
    But the choice I made that moment wound up changing my life forever.  
    I mumbled something along the lines of “Starting a company? Rad, count me in,” though I had absolutely no idea of what that actually meant.   
    But I was curious, and I had nothing to lose except for my GPA, and our first startup was born.  
    These guys turned out to know a lot more about starting companies (and lots of other things) than I did, and pretty soon I was working extra-hard just trying to keep up. I slept even less, programmed even more, and was generally having a great time.  
    Unfortunately, we didn’t know quite enough. Our startup failed, about a year later. The company didn’t leave much of a dent in the universe, but it sure dented my GPA!   
    And my credit score, because right before we totally ran out of money, it was being financed entirely by our student credit cards.  
    Basically, it was a disaster.  
    But, I knew that entrepreneurship was going to be my path. It turned out that starting a business, and watching it grow through hard work, brought me so much joy, I knew I couldn’t do anything else.   
    When I look back at that moment, I really wonder just how the fresh-off-the-boat, risk-averse, grad school-material 19-year-old Max managed to work up the nerve to give this crazy startup thing a try.   
    Yes, my judgement was impaired by sleep deprivation, and I had very little to lose, but most importantly it was curiosity.   
    I failed, but I found to out who I really was – I found my calling.  
    This brings me to my second story (and I will keep this one shorter).  
    Second story is that failure always hurts, and you live through it by staying human.  
    One thing worth noting is that risk-taking does not guarantee immediate success.   
    In fact, it pretty much does the opposite. After that first company failed, I stayed here, and tried to wrap up my Bachelor’s degree as quickly as I could.   
    I kept on starting companies on campus, and they just kept on failing. Four companies, in the span of three years. Each went the way of the dodo in a year or less.  
    But I loved starting them up, coming up with one hare-brained business idea after another. And they just kept. on. failing.   
    My girlfriend at the time got so fed up with this, she broke up with me by ripping up my business registration certificate right in front of my face, to make a point.   
    Thing is, I didn’t mind too much, because that company failed already and I needed to register a new one anyway. I did, and it hurt exactly the same when that one failed too.  
    Finally, I graduated, and moved to where they had more venture capital than cornfields: Palo Alto, California. Almost by accident, I met this guy Peter Thiel, and we founded a company together. That company ended up being PayPal, and that one finally didn’t fail.  
    Incidentally, I have a public service announcement!  
    if your account has been frozen by PayPal, please do not email me, or grab me after this speech – it’s been well over a decade since I had anything to do with PayPal. So stop asking me to unlock your account!  
    After PayPal, failure seemed to have finally let me off the hook. This time, I told myself, I was going to start a company that was going to be even bigger, change the world more, make a bigger dent!  
    None of those things happened, but that next startup taught me my most painful lesson yet: failing people who trust in you, hurts a lot more than just failing yourself.  
    We built a great team, and grew extremely fast for a while, but I got over my skis, and we almost ran out of money, and I had to lay off a bunch of employees.   
    That feeling you get when you explain to a roomful of wide-eyed people that you screwed up, that you didn’t budget well, that you failed to find the money for their salaries, and that they now have to find a new place to work… it’s not fun.  
    You’d think that with the number of failures I’d accumulated by then my skin would be as thick as a rhino’s, but no such luck.   
    It hurt terribly when I had to lay people off… and even worse when I had to do it again, a few months later.  
    A wise colleague who’d been around his fair share of business failure, told me something that dark day: go be a human, not a Chief Executive.   
    We are all hurting, not just you. Instead of feeling sorry for yourself in a corner conference room, go help those you just let go to pack up their stuff, and show some compassion.  
    And so I did.   
    It took some willpower to walk out, to talk to, and to hug the people I felt I had failed so profoundly. I expected a lot of anger and resentment, but instead mostly felt compassion and forgiveness.   
    They understood I tried my best. We were all hurting, but it was slightly easier to cope with it as a team, one last time.  
    Stories about Silicon Valley often over-glamorize failure. We shot the moon, we fell short – but hey, it was a good try, no big deal.   
    That’s simply not true: failing sucks. There is no getting around the pain you experience when you fail, and it doesn’t get much easier with experience.  
    But don’t let fear of failure deter you from taking those risks.   
    Surround yourself with people who will help you cope with the darkest moments, be a human, and you will survive, and ultimately thrive. Which brings me to my final story.  
    That is, be with people who make you want to be a better you.  
    If there is one trope in Silicon Valley, and the business world in general, that is actually true it is  that it’s all about the people.   
    A so-so business plan, and an incredible team are far more likely to succeed than a mediocre team with a plan to take over the world.   
    And it’s not just about having the best individual players – their interpersonal relationships, their empathy for each other, trust and respect, all matter.  
    The early days of PayPal were just as crazy as all the other previous startups. We almost ran out of money, twice.   
    We changed our business model six times, and replaced our Chief Executive Officers three times in four months.   
    International organized crime tried to kill our company, and so did several giant Wall Street banks, inconveniently, all at the same time!  
    As PayPal grew to be a major success, I’ve been asked repeatedly, what was it about the people that made up our early team, that enabled PayPal to persevere, even as many competitors fell to the same challenges?   
    I think I know the answer now.   
    We didn’t exactly start out an amazing team. We were all young, curious, and willing to take huge risks, and had nothing to lose. But single most important factor was: none of us took our spot on this team for granted. Every one of us felt the rising expectations from the rest, and so each one tried to be the very best we could be. And then improve on that.  
    Right around those early PayPal times I met the woman who eventually became my wife, Nellie (hi!). Trying to impress her became my lifelong project – because keeping up with her growth has been the the single funnest challenge of my life.  
    So, if there is one piece of advice I will allow myself from this stage, let it be relationship advice!   
    Whether you are starting a company, or joining one, or even thinking about a life partner: ask yourself, how motivated do you feel to become an even better version of you?  
    If yes, you’ve found something (or someone) truly special – join that team.  
      
    Because of some crazy coincidences, a nuclear accident, and some fantastic science fair displays, I lucked into the innovation of modern era, and met some amazing people, who shaped my own life.  
    People whose brilliance, and thirst for knowledge, and quest for constant self-improvement pushed me to try to be better too.  
    And you don’t have to wait to meet the amazing people in your own life, because you have almost certainly already met them.  
    I followed a couple U of I friends to take a risk I never expected myself to take, to discover my life’s passion, failing all the way to the eventual lucky break.   
    Those two wild and crazy guys who put me up to all this madness, both worked on PayPal from its earliest days, and we still work together on new projects today.  
    The first two dozen of PayPal’s software engineers were also my U of I classmates.   
    It’s been two decades’ worth of companies and projects, and we continue to work together, and support each other.  
    From Yelp to YouTube both of which were founded by U of I grads from the PayPal network.  
    The friendships you forged here, at Illinois, are going to turn out to be the foundational relationships of your life.   
    So, go out there, take risks to find you who you really are!  
    Fail passionately and recover quickly!   
    And find, and hang on tight to those who make you a better you!  
    Which brings me to my final point: don’t wait to take the first risk.   
    As you accumulate success, especially financial success, you start growing barnacles of comfort.   
    A nice car you can finally afford, a place you enjoy coming home to, even a family – all those things don’t just sound nice. They are nice. And they are powerful motivators to change nothing.   
    So, class of 2018, whatever your definition of risk is, go experience it now, while your entire life is ahead of you, and you have almost nothing to lose.   
    You might just find out who you really are.  
    Good luck, congratulations, and thank you for listening!  
    Posted 2 days ago  
    Comments
  
    3 notes  
     too long to tweet  
    
  URL : http://max.levch.in/post/173877932118/uiuc-2018-commencement-address?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website