    
    The Declutter Experiment  
    In late 2017, as part of my research for a book I’m writing on digital minimalism, I invited my mailing list subscribers to participate in an experiment I called the digital declutter.  
    The idea was simple. During the month of January, 2018, participants would take a break from “optional technologies” in their lives, including, notably, social media. At the end of the 31-day period, the participants would then rebuild their digital lives starting from a blank slate — only allowing back in technologies for which they could provide a compelling motivation.  
    I expected around 40 – 50 people would agree to participate in this admittedly disruptive exercise.  
    My guess was wrong.   
    More than 1,600 people signed up. We even received national attention when the New York Times wrote a nice article about the experiment.  
    Since January, I’ve been reading through the hundreds of reports that participants sent me about their experience with the digital declutter. I’ve been learning a lot from these case studies, but I want to focus here on one observation in particular that caught my attention: when freed from standard digital distractions, participants often overhauled their free time in massively positive ways.  
    Here are some real examples of this behavior from my digital declutter experiment…  
      
    –> An engineer named James realized how much of the information he used to consume though social media during the day was “unimportant or useless.” With this drain on his attention removed from his routine, he returned to his old hobby of playing chess, and became an enthusiast of architectural Lego kits (“a wonderful outlet”).  
    –> Heather, a writer and mother of three homeschooled kids, completed a draft of a book, while also reading “many books” written by others.  “I’m recapturing my creative spirit,” she told me.  
    –> An IT professional named Andy noted that he typically reads 3 – 5 books a year. Free from the time sink of social media, he’s on track to finish 50 books in 2018.  
    –> Angie is a yoga instructor, but she also has BFA and used to be a professional artist. “Not spending time on social media had me thinking,” she told me, “what do I want to get good at? Making social media posts, or getting back into painting?” She choose painting. During her declutter she booked three new art shows and had her work accepted at a juried exhibition. “For me, it was simply a refocusing of my time and commitment to myself, to get better at something I love,” she said.  
    –>  A retired stockbroker named Bob began to spend more time with his wife, going for walks, and “really listening.” He expanded this habit of trying to “listen more and talk less” to his friends and family more generally.  
    –> A PhD candidate named Alma described the experience of stepping away from distracting technologies as “liberating.” Her mind began “working all the time,” but on things that were important to her, and not just news about “celebrities and their diets and workouts.” Among other things, she told me: “I was more there for my girls,” I could focus on “keeping my marriage alive,” and at night “I would read research papers [in the time I used to spend scrolling feeds].”  
    –> Another PhD candidate named Jess tackled Anna Karenina and Infinite Jest during the declutter. “Now that I feel like I’m actively choosing what I do with my downtime, I find [hard] activities like reading more pleasurable.”  
    –> A government worker named Ari replaced his online news habit with a daily subscription to the Wall Street Journal print edition. “I still feel perfectly up to date with the news, without getting caught up in the minute-to-minute clickbait headlines and sensationalism that is so typical of online news,” he told me.  
    –> When a publishing executive named Leonie gave up Facebook, she had an epiphany: “I do want to connect socially,” she told me, “but for a bigger purpose, and with a specific group of people, and to share a valuable message.” So she started her own blog on a topic she finds important. “It’s early days yet, but I’m enjoying this redirection my time and creative energy into making something that’s uniquely me, instead of getting caught up in the ‘compete and compare’ culture of social media.”  
    –> David was a former professor looking for a new job after moving to a different state. Ignoring the traditional advice that social media is key to finding jobs (as I also recommend), he deleted his accounts and dedicated his newfound free time to a more traditional job search. “I started getting more and more job interviews,” he told me, attributing his success to being able to deeply research open positions. This effort culminated in the last last week of the declutter: “I had five job interviews in five days and two offers.” He also competed a full rewrite of a young adult novel he was writing. “So I would say this experiment was a wild success,” he concluded.  
    Analog Social Media  
    My initial interpretation of stories like the above was that tools like social media consume lots of time. Therefore, when you minimize their role in your life, you free up time for other, more valuable pursuits.  
    On closer inspection, however, I refined this take. Many of the people who sent me declutter stories were not simply replacing social media use with unrelated activities. In many cases, they were instead finding improved sources of the benefits that drew them to social media in the first place.  
    For example…  
    In some sense, the participants in my digital declutter experiment developed analog alternatives to social media, in which they recreated many of the benefits promised by these digital tools using more intentional real world activities.  
    The resulting analog social media tended to prove significantly more satisfying and rewarding than the addictive experiences offered through screens by the algorithmic attention economy.  It also had the advantage of freeing participants from the sense that their personhood is constantly being sliced, diced and packaged into digital bundles to be sold to the highest bidder.  
    Beyond Loss Aversion  
    In recent decades, our culture has developed a strange loss aversion when it comes to digital consumer products.  
    Even people who are fed up with the deprivations of the algorithmic attention economy are often reluctant to give up services like social media because doing so might lead them to lose some benefits. Loss aversion teaches them to avoid such losses at all costs.  
    The experiments in analog social media described above, however, highlight an alternative to this obsession with loss aversion. Instead of treating all benefits as equal, you can instead ask what activities provide the best benefits.  
    Facebook, for example, might help your social life. But redirecting the 50 minutes per day the average Facebook user spends using these services toward phone conversations and real world outings will likely benefit your social life much more.  
    To focus on the latter is not missing out on the benefits of Facebook. It’s instead replacing Facebook with an activity that boasts an even better return on investment.  
    To state this more abstractly:  
    Focusing on the most beneficial activities to the exclusion of less beneficial alternatives can leave you better off than trying to clutter your life with everything that might offer some value.  
    This idea is not new. It’s the foundation of all minimalism philosophies, including my own concept of digital minimalism. But I wanted to emphasize its importance in our current moment because I think it should be part of the recently energized cultural conversation surrounding social media.  
    When it comes to tools like Facebook, Twitter or Instagram: don’t let the fear of missing out dictate how you live your life. The most productive and fulfilled people I know often got where they are by doubling down on the activities that return them huge benefits, while happily ignoring everything else.  
    Wonderful last sentence: “The most productive and fulfilled people I know often got where they are by doubling down on the activities that return them huge benefits, while happily ignoring everything else.”  
    FOMO , when as a “reason” to remain as a pawn in the Social Media industrial complex
closely parallels the long time smoker who wont quit for FEAR of “gaining weight”.  
    Great article. Can’t wait for the new book  
    The fear of missing out is seriously the only thing that keeps me thinking about Facebook and Instagram since I last deleted them a couple weeks ago.  
    Danny-  
    Before I deleted “news” from my life I was told by a wise man that
(somehow) “Anything you NEED to know, you will know- you will find out”.
Ive seen this to be true!
I also became a happier , positive person because of the news delete.
I then applied this to my old Social account. Delete.
SAME result(s).
There is no “time” to fear once one removes a source of “waste” from our life.
Fear is replaced with a sense of freedom. Of “power” (meaning taking control of your time, life and energy)…it exhilarates you.
Be more concerned with FOML !
Fear Of Missing LIFE
Peace
Scott  
    This is a great essay Professor Newport! Perhaps one of the most fascinating tidbits from your piece was the notion that reading the newspaper kept one of your participants well informed and less anxious. Interestingly enough, Alexis de Tocqueville noted that one of the most significant signs of social life in America was the presence of the newspaper. It was not about providing news only, but being a forum through which people could find out where other people were going to be. It was of coming together and forming associational life. Robert Putnam’s book, Making Democracy Work, a study of civic traditions in modern Italy, demonstrates the same truth. The norther regions of Italy are full of citizens who read the local paper on a weekly basis, and have a deep tradition of civic association. Thanks again for sharing!  
    Brian – I can assure you it’s totally true. I even wrote in a comment a few weeks ago about it. It’s incredible, although it takes some time to get adjusted. Just read a local newspaper (you need to know local things more than anything else) and the WSJ for the economy and whatever happens globally that might affect us.  
    There’s an experiment called 99 Days of Freedom where the goal is to encourage people to quit their use of Facebook.  
    http://99daysoffreedom.com/  
    I love this article Cal. It helps people see the life they’re losing to social media. Thank you!  
    I switched to printed newspapers a few months ago. What a blessing! Not only I am MORE informed, but I don’t have the distraction, anxiety, and feelings that social media news (and news on TV) plus clickbait bring with them. (I also removed every news app from my phone, and every news source from my social media accounts with only one exception).  
    Interestingly enough, I remember listening to an interview with happiness guru Gretchen Rubin in which she recommended reading newspapers instead of watching television as a change promoting greater happiness and less anxiety. The printed word provides far more detachment than the television, and is self-limiting by nature with no online links in which to suck you further into a morass of sensationalized click-bait.  
    This is perfect. Since I stopped using social media and started being very intentional with how I spend my time online, I have had time to build a business, read books, practice the piano for an hour a day, and spend purposeful time with my 4 kids. Digital minimalism is a much needed idea in this day and age.  
    great article ever since i have got a shark tank videos from which he paid for those videos, i have got struck with the business ideas.. its been a moth i stopped using my fb and instagram  i hope for the biggest thing in my life thanks for the article  
    I would be super interested to see Cal not just railing on the harms of social media, but also providing a wholesome alternative, a way to fill the time freed by excising social media from your life, or even systemize your social life. “Social hacks” in a style similar to the study hacks of the early days of the blog. For instance, one person I’ve heard has a system where he has a reminder per friend pop up every few months reminding him to call them.  
    Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *  
    Comment   
    Name *   
    Email *   
    Website   
     

  
      
      
      
    I'm a computer science professor who writes about how to perform productive, valuable, and meaningful work in an increasingly distracted digital age.   If you're new to Study Hacks, a good place to start is the blog archive or my new book on the power of deep work.  
      
    A course by Cal Newport and Scott Young  
    LEARN MORE  
    


  
    You'll receive the blog posts via email.
Your email address is never sold or shared.  
      
       
       
    
  
    (The notebook I use to create my daily plans.)  
       
    
  
    (The definitive academic treatment of deliberate practice.)  
       
    
  
    (A crazy but brilliant book. An important influence.)  
    Note: This site is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com.  
    © 2018 Cal Newport •   
    
  URL : http://calnewport.com/blog/2018/03/28/on-analog-social-media/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website