# Which company will fall first: Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, or Microsoft?

No current major tech company has ever hit 100 years and hitting 100 years is an achievement that no tech company is prepared for.

Even if a tech company hits 100 years, it becomes irrelevant and the new young population won't like it.

Google has a lot of services. They've created an unrivaled ecosystem that almost everyone will find impossible to compete with. Google controls the search industry and 71% of revenue at Google comes from advertising. [1]

Facebook is the king of social media with Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Oculus, and so much more. 92% of Facebook revenue comes from advertising.

Google and Facebook have a duopoly on the entire industry. 77% of every advertising dollar goes to Facebook and Google.

However, more and more companies are creating self-serve ad programs. Snapchat, Spotify, and even Quora does this. Up until now, this has been ineffective but it is becoming more effective than using Google Adsense.

Google and Facebook’s hold on the advertising industry could slip. This would not cause them to die obviously.

The Apple Watch is not being advertised as a tech piece. It is not being called the next greatest gadget. It is being advertised as a fashion device. The Apple Watch is not a “gadget”. It is a luxury watch.

The iPhone X is not the best phone by any means. The S9 beats it in almost every way (except for iOS for some people). However, the iPhone X is way more popular than the S9 will ever be. The news cycle went crazy with the X release but only spent a day on the 9.

This is because the iPhone X is not marketed as a “smartphone”. It has become a status symbol and a fashion choice in a way

Instead of remaining a tech company, Apple is becoming a fashion company. They are the riskiest business ever to live. They increase prices. They make products more exclusive. They create a dedicated fanbase. They aren't a generic tech company but, instead, a fashion company.

Risky but, if done well, they stay the richest company ever.

Microsoft has their fortune spread wide. Between Windows/Office, Azure, personal computing and R&D, Microsoft wants to rule the world.

However, Microsoft faces tough competition and they are historically bad at competition.

Apple will never take away Window’s business. However, Google will. As they expand ChromeOS, more and more people will switch. The average user will begin to use ChromeBooks due to their ease of use and general displeasure with Windows.

Because of this, more people will use Google Drive and Docs/Slides/etc. This means less people will pay for Microsoft Office when a free competitor exists.

Microsoft will only appeal to the professional audience where Google cannot compete. While Azure has the second highest marketshare in cloud computing, it faces tough competition from Google with Google Cloud Platform.

Amazon is one of the few companies guaranteed to survive. As the leader in e-commerce, they are one of the few companies who have found a way to stay relevant.

Walmart made a big mistake. They offer free 2 day shipping to everyone[2]. This sounds great but it doesn't create dedicated users.

Prime Members spend a lot. The “2 Day Shipping” is only the gimmick. The real reason Amazon keeps prime is not for the money from Prime membership but from the higher spending patterns of prime users.

Walmart will never have his advantage. Because Prime offers so much, Prime members exclusively use Amazon and tend to drift away from Google and Walmart.

While Amazon will not go on to form a monopoly, Amazon emerged as the dominant retailer in the digital era. This is the same way Walmart emerged as the dominant retailer in the previous era. Echo and AWS only secures their position moving forward.

If Google and Facebook cannot keep the duopoly on the ad industry, they could suffer and eventually die off.

If Apple cannot succeed as a “social status and fashion” company, they could suffer and eventually die off.

If Microsoft cannot defend itself from competition, they could suffer and eventually die off.

Footnotes

[1] What Are Alphabet's Key Sources of Revenue? -- Trefis
[2] Walmart launches free, 2-day shipping without a membership on purchases of $35 or more
    
URL : https://www.quora.com/Which-company-will-fall-first-Google-Apple-Facebook-Amazon-or-Microsoft/answer/Griffin-Wagner-9?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website