  Several times in my career, I’ve joined a team whose work was already well 
under way, where I had a massive knowledge deficit, and didn’t have 
pre-existing relationships. None of those excuses relieved me from the pressure 
I felt to establish myself and contribute. Over time, I realized that the 
natural instinct to push for early impact leads many incoming leaders into 
challenging relationships as they expose their knowledge deficit and waste 
time. So, I developed an algorithm that has helped me ramp up quickly — and 
in several cases — have an impact in a relatively short period of time, while 
minimizing collateral damage.   
    The first step is to find someone on the team and ask for 30 minutes with them. 
In that meeting you have a simple agenda:  
    Repeat the above process for every name you're given. Don’t stop until there 
are no new names.  
    The sum of the answers from the first 25 mins will not give you a complete 
picture of the team's work. That will take months to develop. But they will 
give you a framework for integrating new information more quickly, which will 
speed up how fast you ramp. It will also heavily over index on the areas of 
work under active discussion, which will help you dive in productively to the 
most critical discussions immediately. The nature of what people choose to 
discuss is a very valuable signal about the problems the team face, as it may 
be about the work, the organization, or process. Finally, it will give you a 
sense of the language and terminology that can very often be a barrier to 
working smoothly with teams.  
    The answers from the second question give you a cheat sheet on how to impress 
the team with early positive impact. Some of the things you'll hear will take 
time to fix, such as “we need a bigger team” or “our infrastructure isn’t 
scaling.” Those are important and it will be good for the team to hear you 
internalize those challenges. But a surprising number of the issues you'll 
hear repeatedly will be things you can easily help with, like “we waste a 
bunch of time in meetings every week” or “we need a dedicated conference 
room.” I start with the latter as quickly as I can because those are the 
types of things teams often neglect to prioritize, in spite of a compounding 
negative impact on progress.  
    The third question will give you a valuable map of influence in the 
organization. The more often names show up and the context in which they show 
up tends to provide a very different map of 
the organization than the one in the org chart.  
    For all the value I just described, the greatest value in this process isn't 
in the answers — it is in the asking. Taking these meetings and listening 
shows proper respect for the team that's in place. It can be hard to remember, 
but while you may be insecure about taking a new role because you feel like 
you're at a disadvantage, the people you're speaking with may also be unsure 
about you taking that role and what it means for them. Demonstrating mutual 
respect builds the trust required to make progress.  
    
  URL : http://boz.com/articles/career-cold-start.html?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website