    
  Sleep 9 Hours a Night: It might sound like overkill, but your performance will improve so much that you will automatically make up the “lost” 3–4 hours you’d have spent working at 50% capacity.

Invest in a Fast as Hell Router: Slow internet is the killer of hopes and dreams… Or at least productivity and efficiency. I’d recommend buying the Asus Nighthawk X6 AC3200

Do the Most Difficult Task of the Day 2–3 Hours After Waking: Time isn’t your most valuable resource. Mental energy is. You only have 90–120 minutes of peak mental energy levels and these levels usually occur about 2–3 hours after waking up. Do your most important tasks at this time.

Have Your Groceries Delivered: Shopping is a waste of time that can eat into your day and cause you to spend more than you need on foods that aren’t healthy. Use an app like Instacart and have your weekly groceries delivered to your doorstep for only a few extra dollars.

Design a Meal Plan and Prep Every Sunday/Thursday: A great way to save time and be more effective is to eliminate unnecessary decisions. One of the most wasteful decisions is what to eat everyday. Create a balanced meal plan and spend 2–3 hours prepping it every Sunday and Thursday. Trust me… It’ll change your life.

Hire Someone to Clean Your House/Apartment: A clean environment is essential to productivity and success. If you work from home (or even if you don’t), hire someone to come and clean your house as often as you can afford it. It will pay for itself within the first month.

Exercise for 30–90 Minutes a Day: If you don’t have time to exercise for 30 minutes, then you need to exercise for 60. Seriously. The Harvard Business Review has stated on several occasions that exercise is a mandatory part of your job description. It’s essential for peak performance and mental well being.

Speed Up Your Mouse and Use a Dvorak Keyboard: These two hacks will save you hours each year of unnecessarily wasted time.

Use Smart Home Automation: Buy a Roomba, setup an Alexa (or similar device) that allows you to control things with your voice. It will save you lots of time and make you feel like a badass Tony Stark.

Create Location Specific Tasks: Divide your days into different tasks such as writing, responding to email, creating sales letters etc. Then pick a specific location for each task and ONLY complete that task at that location. This can be as simple as changing which side of the table you sit on but will create powerful associations in your brain that will help you get more done.

Automate Your Finances: If you spend more than a few hours a month looking at your finances, you’re doing it wrong. Use the steps outlined in I Will Teach You to Be Rich and automate your finances so that savings, investing, and bills are all taken care of on autopilot.

Meditate for 10 Minutes: Like sleep and exercise, this hack might “Cost” you time, but you will earn it back in clarity and mental performance.

Outsource Things You Hate: Seriously. If you hate doing something, pay someone else to do it. It will save you time, plug a mental energy leak, and allow you to focus on higher value tasks.

Plan Every Week with Google Calendar: Knowing EXACTLY what you need to do each day will save you hundreds of hours each year and make you 1,000X more productive. Use Google Calendar to plan out your entire week and I promise you’ll get more done than ever before.
Play Video Games and Watch TV: Seriously. If you’re the type of person who’s asking these questions on Quora, you are likely the type of person who doesn’t rest and recharge very effectively. Give yourself 1–2 hours a night of guilt-free “Fuck off” time where you do whatever you want. It will restore your energy and make you more productive later in the week.

  URL : https://www.quora.com/What-are-some-uncommon-ways-to-work-smarter-instead-of-harder/answer/Andrew-Ferebee?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website