  In this 4-part blog series, we’ll look inside the Chrome browser from high-level architecture to 
the specifics of the rendering pipeline. If you ever wondered how the browser turns your code into 
a functional website, or you are unsure why a specific technique is suggested for performance 
improvements, this series is for you.  <br/>   As part 1 of this series, we’ll take a look at core computing terminology and Chrome’s 
multi-process architecture.  <br/>   In order to understand the environment that the browser is running, we need to understand a few 
computer parts and what they do. <br/>   First is the Central Processing Unit - or CPU. The CPU can be considered your 
computer’s brain. A CPU core, pictured here as an office worker, can handle many different tasks 
one by one as they come in. It can handle everything from math to art while knowing how to reply 
to a customer call. In the past most CPUs were a single chip. A core is like another CPU living in 
the same chip. In modern hardware, you often get more than one core, giving more computing power 
to your phones and laptops. <br/>   Graphics Processing Unit - or GPU is another part of the computer. Unlike CPU, 
GPU is good at handling simple tasks but across multiple cores at the same time. As the name 
suggests, it was first developed to handle graphics. This is why in the context of graphics 
"using GPU" or "GPU-backed" is associated with fast rendering and smooth interaction. 
In recent years, with GPU-accelerated computing, more and more computation is becoming possible on 
GPU alone. <br/>   When you start an application on your computer or phone, the CPU and GPU are the ones powering 
the application. Usually, applications run on the CPU and GPU using mechanisms provided by the 
Operating System. <br/>   Another concept to grasp before diving into browser architecture is Process and Thread. 
A process can be described as an application’s executing program. A thread is the one that lives 
inside of process and executes any part of its process program.  <br/>   When you start an application, a process is created. The program might create thread(s) to help it 
do work, but that's optional. The Operating System gives the process a "slab" of memory to work 
with and all application state is kept in that private memory space. When you close the 
application, the process also goes away and the Operating System frees up the memory. <br/>   A process can ask the Operating System to spin up another process to run different tasks. When this 
happens, different parts of the memory are allocated for the new process. If two processes need to 
talk, they can do so by using Inter Process Communication (IPC). Many applications 
are designed to work this way so that if a worker process get unresponsive, it can be restarted 
without stopping other processes which are running different parts of the application. <br/>   So how is a web browser built using processes and threads? Well, it could be one process with many 
different threads or many different processes with a few threads communicating over IPC.  <br/>   The important thing to note here is that these different architectures are implementation details. 
There is no standard specification on how one might build a web browser. One browser’s approach may 
be completely different from another.  <br/>   For the sake of this blog series, we are going to use Chrome’s recent architecture described in the 
diagram below. <br/>   At the top is the browser process coordinating with other processes that take care of different 
parts of the application. For the renderer process, multiple processes are created and assigned to 
each tab. Until very recently, Chrome gave each tab a process when it could; now it tries to give 
each site its own process, including iframes (see Site Isolation). <br/>   The following table describes each Chrome process and what it controls: <br/>   There are even more processes like the Extension process and utility processes. If you want to see 
how many processes are running in your Chrome, click the options menu icon 
more_vert at the top right corner, select More Tools, then 
select Task Manager. This opens up a window with a list of processes that are currently running 
and how much CPU/Memory they are using. <br/>   Earlier, I mentioned Chrome uses multiple renderer process. In the most simple case, you can 
imagine each tab has its own renderer process. Let’s say you have 3 tabs open and each tab is run 
by an independent renderer process. 
If one tab becomes unresponsive, then you can close the unresponsive tab and move on while keeping 
other tabs alive. If all tabs are running on one process, when one tab becomes unresponsive, all 
the tabs are unresponsive. That’s sad. <br/>   Because processes have their own private memory space, they often contain copies of common 
infrastructure (like V8 which is a Chrome's JavaScript engine). This means more memory usage as 
they can't be shared the way they would be if they were threads inside the same process. 
In order to save memory, Chrome puts a limit on how many processes it can spin up. 
The limit varies depending on how much memory and CPU power your device has, but when Chrome hits 
the limit, it starts to run multiple tabs from the same site in one process. <br/>   The same approach is applied to the browser process. Chrome is undergoing architecture changes to 
run each part of the browser program as a service allowing to easily split into different processes 
or aggregate into one.  <br/>   General idea is that when Chrome is running on powerful hardware, it may split each service into 
different processes giving more stability, but if it is on a resource-constraint device, Chrome 
consolidates services into one process saving memory footprint. Similar approach of consolidating 
processes for less memory usage have been used on platform like Android before this change. <br/>   Site Isolation is a recently 
introduced feature in Chrome that runs a separate renderer process for each iframe. 
We’ve been talking about one renderer process per tab model which allowed cross-site 
iframes to run in a single renderer process with sharing memory space between different sites. 
Running a.com and b.com in the same renderer process might seem okay.  <br/>   The Same Origin Policy 
is the core security model of the web; it makes sure one site cannot access data from other sites 
without consent. Bypassing this policy is a primary goal of security attacks. 
Process isolation is the most effective way to separate sites. With 
Meltdown and Spectre, 
it became even more apparent that we need to separate sites using processes. 
With Site Isolation enabled on desktop by default since Chrome 67, each iframe in a tab gets a 
separate renderer process.  <br/>   Enabling Site Isolation has been a multi-year engineering effort. Site Isolation isn’t as simple as 
assigning different renderer processes; it fundamentally changes the way iframes talk to each 
other. Opening devtools on a page with iframes running on different processes means devtools had to 
implement behind-the-scenes work to make it appear seamless. Even running a simple Ctrl+F to find a 
word in a page means searching across different renderer processes. You can see the reason why 
browser engineers talk about the release of Site Isolation as a major milestone! <br/>   In this post, we’ve covered a high-level view of browser architecture and covered the benefits of a 
multi-process architecture. We also covered Servicification and Site Isolation in Chrome that is 
deeply related to multi-process architecture. In the next post, we’ll start diving into what 
happens between these processes and threads in order to display a website. <br/>   Did you enjoy the post? If you have any questions or suggestions for the future post, I'd love to 
hear from you in the comment section below or @kosamari on Twitter. <br/>   Was this page helpful? <br/>   
rss_feed
  Subscribe to our
  RSS or
  Atom feed
  and get the latest updates in your favorite feed reader!
  

 <br/>   Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see our Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates. <br/>   
      
      Last updated September 5, 2018.
     <br/>  
 URL : https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/09/inside-browser-part1?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website