  Making introductions is one of the most rewarding things we do as backers and builders of startups, and as affiliates of Bloomberg — where we love bringing promising startups to the attention of a company we admire.  
    If you ask me for an introduction, I’ll introduce you to literally anyone I know if I believe it’s likely to be in their interest. (And I’m a fan of the opt-in intro*, where I ask the receiver if they’re willing before I introduce you.)  
    If you ask me to introduce you to someone, I’ll sometimes say:  
    You’d be shocked how often I get back something unusable (or, put differently, something unlikely to achieve your goal of connecting with the receiver of the intro).  
    To save us both time, here’s what I mean when I ask for a forward intro email.  
    First, why do I ask for this, specifically? (Compared to, say, “please send me a blurb about your company,” or “draft me an email I can send” or some other way to get things going?) It lets you do the things you’re best at — describing who you are, what your organization does, why you want to talk to the receiver, speaking in your own voice, etc. And I do only the things I’m best at — knowing the receiver, and sharing my opinion of you. It also optimizes for me spending as little time as possible, so I can make your introduction as quickly as possible.  
    When you send me this kind of forward intro email, I’ll literally hit “forward” and write something like “Hey James, I just met this founder and thought she was onto something — take a look at the below, do you want to talk?”  
    When the receiver replies, usually with a “sounds great,” I’ll just add you to the chain and it’s done (vs. having to then write yet another email introducing you both).  
    A good forward intro email…  
    Here’s an example for one I just got that works well (I only have one suggestion, see after you read the email)…  
    (What’s the one suggestion? Fix the subject line. When that lands in Hunter’s inbox, it turns into something meaningless to him. “Hipcamp intro to Hunter” might be better. Otherwise, it’s letter perfect and, Alyssa, good luck with your raise.)  
    Please avoid confusing a forward intro email with similar-sounding things I believe are worse:  
    One extra advantage of this method, which Alex Lassar pointed out to me, is that the email you send me asking for the intro could just be a forward intro email — see, you saved a step.  
    And now, when I ask for a forward intro email, you know what I mean. A lot of hoopla for a simple intro? I want us all to shave complexity off the process of knowing each other. And when you make introductions 5–10 times a day, you could be making thousands of intros per year. It adds up, and it’s important to get right. People are the currency of the realm.  
    [I got a request to move this oldie-but-goodie from my personal blog to Medium and, separately, James asked me to share more detail about the different cases of introductions, which I did on Quora.]  
    * Fred Wilson popularized the double opt-in intro where both sides agree to take the introduction. In principle, I agree with him 100%. In practice, it’s rare that I proactively decide to introduce two people without already being in conversation with one of them — so one side has almost always already opted in.  
    ** I am, repeatedly, surprised by the different work cultures on the East and West Coasts, and in technology vs. other industries; it even extends to introductions. California intros, and intros in technology everywhere, tend to be shorter, less formal. New York intros, or intros in other industries (or non-profits) tend to be more professional.  
    Head of Bloomberg Beta, investing in the best startups creating the future of work. Alignment: Neutral good  
    Learning about the future of work  
    
  URL : https://also.roybahat.com/introductions-and-the-forward-intro-email-14e2827716a1?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website