  My eyes crack open. 7am. Roll over. Grab my phone. Start scrolling…  
    Check Product Hunt. Ahh, shit. Someone just launched an app similar to my product (and we’re still in beta).  
    Scroll through Twitter. Shit! This person I’m jealous of just announced a another success.  
    Read Medium. Fuck. Someone wrote a post almost identical to what I wrote months ago and they’re getting more traction.  
    My envy grows large, my blood pressure goes up. I feel like I’m waking up in a heavy cloud; an agitated haze. Already on edge, and I haven’t even made toast yet.  
    Stress is our body’s defence against bad news. It was useful when our ancestors were running around the jungle about to be eaten. It’s much less helpful now.  
    The problem is that the worry itself can harm you as much as the outcome you’re worried about. While you’re stressing over what might happen, your body is releasing adrenaline and cortisol as if you were actually in danger.  
    These hormones are what cause intense feelings: jealousy, anger, sadness, despair.  
    But even worse, they reduce your ability to make great stuff. Instead of putting your energy into creating, you’re obsessing about things you can’t change.  
    Here’s how to get out of that negative downward spiral:  
    Quit worrying about what everyone else is doing. Focus on how you're helping people.  
    Agonizing over your competition doesn’t help you serve your customers better. Being jealous of your peers won’t improve your craft.  
    There’s only two things that will improve your situation:  
    Focus on your own shit and ignore everything else.  
    
.a{fill:none;stroke:currentColor;stroke-linecap:round;stroke-linejoin:round;}notes-book
Startup stories, lessons, and tips.
  
    
.a{fill:none;stroke:currentColor;stroke-linecap:round;stroke-linejoin:round;}calendar-1
Sent on Saturday mornings.
  
    
.cls-1{fill:none;stroke:currentColor;stroke-linecap:round;stroke-linejoin:round;}coffee-cup-hot
Read it while you drink your coffee.
  
    There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.  
    No spam. Unsubscribe anytime. Powered by ConvertKit.  
    
  URL : https://justinjackson.ca/focus-on-your-own-shit?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website