  
         Entrepreneur (Firebase), angel investor (many), international developer (mostly Haiti), and gymnast. 
        
    


	
	
	
	 
	
	
	
	
	
	 

  
    
      © 2018 Andrew Lee
      Built with
      Hugo using hyde-hyde.
      
      
    I hear a lot of startup pitches. I’ve been angel investing now for ~4 years, and I’m an LP and advisor to a number of VC funds. I also heard a lot of pitches through my work at Firebase (the company I co-founded), as many of its customers are startups.  
    I like being pitched – partly because I enjoy meeting smart people, and partly because it’s a chance to pay-it-forward to the next cohort of entrepreneurs, but largely because it’s a chance to be a part of the solution to some of the world’s biggest problems.  
    My favorite pitches solve a problem I’m already concerned about. These pitches present me with a novel approach I had not considered, and they back up their approach with some promising initial data and a high-powered team that’s ready to take this all the way to the finish line. I walk away from these pitches excited, hopeful, and with a new perspective on the problem. I find myself thinking “what can I do to make sure they are successful?” These are the startups I invest in, and they’re the ones I share with my investor friends.  
    The pitches I’m most excited to hear are the ones solving the big, scary problems that most people don’t want to touch. Climate change? Here’s a credible path to solving it. Infectious diseases? Here’s how home testing can make a difference. Net neutrality? Here’s how a new model for ISPs can change things. Electricity access for the poor? Here’s how 1.3 billion more people can get it.  
    So, without further ado, here are some startup pitches I’m just itching to hear!  
    It should come as a surprise to no one that I’m an active investor in the developer products space (some of my investments here include Imgix, Iterative.ai, Sentenai, and EnvKey). Here are several ecosystem-wide problems that I think about a lot, and for which I’m eager to hear a good solution.  
    Facebook started as a way to share updates with your friends. Instagram and Snapchat started as ways to share photos. YouTube began as a way to share videos. Twitter began as a way to share short thoughts.  
    Each of these services _started _as a way to help the producers of content get their message out to the world. They thrived and grew rapidly. But then they changed… the advertising business model created an incentive not just to help people produce and share content, but to keep people in the app as long as possible. They morphed into carefully engineered machines for sucking up as much of your time and attention as possible. They encouraged narcissism, clickbait, partisan politics, “fake news”, creepy videos, and other negatives. They stopped being healthy, fun ways to connect with your loved ones.  
    Then came privacy issues. Advertising requires personal data, so these companies began mining our personal communications for ad targeting. This led to adverse product decisions – weakening of encryption, overly-liberal privacy defaults, merging of personal data between seemingly independent sources, “creepy” behavior, and so on.  
    People are becoming aware of these problems like never before, and they’re beginning to demand better solutions. Below are some areas that I would be excited to invest in:  
    Capital-lite startups have reigned for the last decade. AirBnB, Uber, and Instacart have been poster-children of this movement. “Let someone else own the assets,” they said. “We’ll just bring the software”.  
    There were some big successes here, to be sure, but I think we’re now starting to see that there are limits to innovation when all you have is software. More recently, we’ve started to see what can be done when software is combined with capital assets: Bird and LimeBike are buying huge numbers of scooters, SpaceX, Rocket Lab, and others are building new launch vehicles, Joby Aviation is building new airplanes, and WeWork is one of the world’s biggest landlords. Public tech companies are even better examples of this: Tesla is investing billions in batteries and manufacturing, Amazon is investment billions in distribution centers, and Google, Microsoft, and Amazon are investing $10’s of billions on data centers for their cloud products.  
    I’m very bullish on a capital-heavy, asset-full future for startups. I believe this combination will be needed to tackle our most pressing problems: energy, infrastructure, transportation, and so on. Some capital-heavy investments I’ve made already include Charm, B8ta, Aurrion, and Sigora. I remain very excited about the space, and below I’ve listed some specific areas I’d be excited to invest in.  
    Despite all of the recent “disruption” from Silicon Valley, there are still many huge industries that have been left largely untouched. Many of these industries look boring from the outside, or appear to have intractable problems that software can’t solve. When a startup does manage to crack one of these markets, though, they find themselves with a huge market and no competition in site.  
    Investments I’ve made in these “sleeper” markets include OpenLattice, Fairy, and Embark. Here are some additional startups I’d like to fund:  
    If you’re working in one of these areas, feel free to reach out to me: startupandrew (at) gmail dot com. I typically like to invest early in pre-seed or seed (though I’ve invested all the way up through Series B in the past). A normal first check from me ranges from $50k to $250k.  
    Besides providing just money, as an investor I can be especially helpful advising on engineering plans, team-building, and overall business strategy. I also can provide introductions to other investors, and in some cases, help with hiring and business development.  
    If you’re a founder who is just starting out, and you’re not yet looking for investment, feel free to borrow some ideas from this list. And, don’t be shy about reaching out as well. I’d be interested in hearing about your plans, and I may be able to provide more insight into the space you’re tackling too.  
    Thanks to Max Henderson, James Tamplin, Peter Reinhardt, and Timothy Lee for reviewing drafts of this post.  
    
  URL : https://startupandrew.com/posts/startups-i-want-to-fund/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website