  I read few articles this evening and I stumbled upon a nice github repo that has roadmaps for FrontEnd Dev, BackEnd Dev and DevOps.  
    I would say it is quite spot on as I can relate to image shown below. If you go to like /r/Devops on Reddit , few times a week you will see people questioning how to become a DevOps.   
    A DevOps person to me is someone that is extraordinary generalist. Has background in many IT fields such as Networking, Sys Admin, Dev, Software Engineer and basically understands application lifecycle from end to end.   
    I seen many DevOps positions but to me they are more of a Dev or Sys positions rather than "DevOps", but who am I to say what is a DevOps Engineer when there is so much that goes into that position.   
    Anyway, the point of this article was for me to share you that great Github Repo by kamranahmedse, take a look at it and comment below your thoughts on if it really takes that much to become a "DevOps" Engineer.
  
    I've been in IT field for almost two decades starting as a
Help Desk, Tier1/2/3 Support (unix/linux), Network Engineer, Software Engineer, Systems Specialist(Dev), Systems Engineer and for past 5-6y a DevOps Engineer.   
    For me to hire a DevOps Engineer, I would be ok if he/she knew 
How to code (Pick fav language)
How to manage AWS/GCE/Azure (pick one)
How to troubleshoot network
How to build pipeline for any CI/CD 
Get along(support) with Devs/Ops/Noc/Qa etc..
Innovate and not being afraid of trying new things as well as make life easier for him/her self and others.
And if you take all that above into consideration, that person is someone that saves productivity time and money for xyz company.   
    DevOps Guy who loves to work on CI/CD and recently full on Kubernetes.   
    

 JoeHobot
        
  
    Get along(support) with Devs/Ops/Noc/Qa etc..
Innovate and not being afraid of trying new things as well as make life easier for him/her self and others.  
    These two things are huge. The tech really isn't that hard to learn. But the soft skills to know how to talk to the people you need to work with is important.  
    Being able to take something like Python and glue two services together to deliver something useful for your coworkers is awesome.  
    Nice article, the only thing missing are the databases (postgres, mysql etc..) because a lot of devopsing is also dealing with the data...  
    I understand the database parts and for most people that I work with know mysql and postgress in a nutshell as well as building it from scratch, however not necessarily do complex tables updates and what not.  Good point tho.  
    That all sounds about 100% right, from having worked at a big corporation where almost all of those tools were used.   
    Great article. I must admit I didn't really have a clear definition of what a DevOps Engineer does, and your article helped me to understand better their role!   
    I would have listed Spinnaker instead of Drone, but hey anything mature from CNCF works  
    Seems that the backend knowledge is prerequisite for DevOps, if I read the diagram right.
github.com/kamranahmedse/developer...  
    

          

It seems like yesterday Webpack emerged as the most viable option for bundling ...
        
  
    
        We’re a place where coders share, stay up-to-date and grow their careers.
        
    
We strive for transparency and don't collect excess data.
  
    
  URL : https://dev.to/joehobot/devops-roadmap-5d0?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website