  In spite of all the ink that journalists, analysts, and pundits have spilled on Uber over the years, no mainstream article has focused on what I consider to be the most elegant feature of this now ubiquitous, high growth global service — no driver-partner is ever told where or when to work. This is quite remarkable — an entire global network miraculously “level loads” on its own. Driver-partners unilaterally decide when they want to work and where they want to work. The flip side is also true — they have unlimited freedom to choose when they do NOT want to work. Despite the complete lack of a “driver-partner schedule” this system delivers pick-up times that are less than 5 minutes (in most US cities (with populations over 25K) and in 412 cities in 55 other countries. The Uber network, along with Mr. Smith’s invisible hand, is able to elegantly match supply and demand, without the “schedules” and “shifts” that are the norm in most every other industry.  
    Some have raised questions and concerns about the “gig” economy and the rise of these new independent and autonomous work types. Detractors frequently highlight that these work types lack some of the structured benefits that are frequently attached to traditional full time job offerings. However, what they fail to consider is that there is one critical and fundamental feature of the “gig” economy that is completely absent from traditional job types. That feature — worker autonomy of both time and place — simply does not exist in other industries. One cannot show up for work at Starbucks on a Monday and then decide not to work at all on Tuesday, and for only 2 hours on Wednesday. Oh yeah, and then on Thursday let’s just “play it by ear.” One cannot get a job at Walmart or McDonalds or ironically even as a taxi cab driver without agreeing to some sort of shift or schedule. It is unheard of for an employee to say “I want to work 3 hours this week, 45 the next, and then take 2 weeks off.” This autonomy and freedom of the “gig” work type, which is highly valued by millions and millions of people, would be impossible to implement for the overwhelming majority of companies.  
    In November of 2014, the Morgan Stanley sell-side research team that focuses on the auto industry, headed by Adam Jonas, made a trip to Detroit to visit the big three automakers. In their own words, “the highlight of the trip, however, was three Uber trips we took between meetings.” They chronicled these three trips in a report they published titled, Confessions of an Uber Driver: Rollin in the ‘D.  Interestingly, they encountered three different driver-partners that epitomize why the “where you want, when you want” autonomy of Uber is so fundamentally important. Each of these individuals has a life situation that is supplemented and improved as a result of this super unique flexibility. Included herein is a summary of each driver-partner profile. You will notice that a traditional 9-5 job would have been completely unhelpful to any of the three.  
    In January of 2015, Uber partnered with Alan Krueger, a professor at Princeton University, to conduct the first comprehensive analysis of Uber’s driver-partners, based on both survey data and anonymized, aggregated administrative data. The results from this survey mirrored many of the points that Jonas uncovered and that McKinsey would later uncover. Here are a few key highlights:  
    In October of 2016, McKinsey and Company (working with Uber) published a detailed research report titled, Independent Work: Choice, Necessity and the Gig Economy. The complete work, which is quite detailed and interesting, is publicly available. As the main report is quite lengthy at 138 pages, some readers may prefer the 18-page executive summary. Unsurprisingly, their findings were quite consistent with points already raised above — people value freedom and autonomy. Here is a subset of the relevant findings:  
    Last year, on a trip to New Orleans, I met another driver in a similar situation to those profiled in the Morgan Stanley report. She was a single mother who worked during the week as a nurse. On Friday and Saturday nights, she would drive with Uber until she acquired $100 in earnings, then she would head home. This effort earned her over $800 a month in extra income that helped her support her family. There are no other supplemental job types that are as simple and consistent as Uber is for this single mother. And the impact to her life is real and meaningful.  
    Another reason Uber is such a great supplemental work type is that peaks in usage elegantly overlap with time windows that are convenient for traditional 9-5pm, Monday-Friday full-time workers. Friday and Saturday nights are simultaneously the consistent weekly peaks of (a) demand on the Uber system, and (b) spare time that is available for people with standard full-time jobs that want to pick up some incremental income (the chart to the right highlights this). The same thing happens with holidays and festivals. The need for rides (and therefore drivers) at music festivals or seasonal events or in a vacation town like Tahoe are bursty. That said, these same holiday weekends are when people searching for supplemental income are free from the primary occupation and can make the voluntary decision to earn more money. I have met drivers in Tahoe that came to town with their family (on vacation) and are earning while others are hiking or skiing. The matching of this excess supply with excess demand is both elegant and fortunate.  
    There is another incredible driver-partner benefit of the Uber system that is radically different from traditional work types. Uber pays the driver their money immediately when earned. While other employers have experimented with ways to do this from time to time, or once a month — Uber allows this up to 5 times a day. Normal employers are nowhere close on this dimension (most pay 2-3 weeks in arrears). Imagine how this can be helpful to someone who is living paycheck to paycheck in their primary occupation. Not only are the extra earnings in and of themselves useful, but the speed of delivery of the actual cash could mean avoiding nasty traps like usurious payday loans. In fact, based on an analysis of Federal Reserve data, 47 percent of Americans “can’t pay for an unexpected $400 expense through savings or credit cards, without selling something or borrowing money.” Now they have a much better option.  
    There are many difficult situations in modern life where having a simple, flexible, and consistent form of supplemental income is quite beneficial:  
    The McKinsey study also uncovered these broader societal benefits that come from scalable “independent work” earnings structures:  
    “Independent work could have benefits for the economy, cushioning unemployment, improving labor force participation, stimulating demand, and raising productivity. Consumers and organizations could benefit from the greater availability of services and improved matching that better fulfills their needs. Workers who choose to be independent value the autonomy and flexibility.”  
    One thing to note about most of the scenarios above is that they are “temporary.” There is not a desire or intention on the part of the driver-partner to do this as a lifelong career pursuit. Rather, they recognize that it is an amazingly convenient way to solve a temporary need or to help bridge through to another station in life. Some labor lobbyists argue we should turn ride-sharing driving into a scheduled, full-time affair, but in doing so, you would eliminate the key reasons that most people take to the road in the first place. You would also potentially eliminate the world’s premier supplemental work offering.  
    In just a few short years, over 3 million driver-partners have joined the Uber platform. To put that in perspective, Walmart has grown to 2.3 million employees over 55 years. I think it’s safe to say that over the past five years, no industry has created more new jobs and new income opportunities than ride-sharing. And keep in mind that approximately three-fourths of the industry revenue goes straight to the labor provider — which is higher than almost any other industry on the planet. As a result, in just a few short years, global ride-sharing driver-entrepreneurs have taken in approximately $75+ billion dollars (with industry lifetime revenues north of $100 billion dollars). And keep in mind that ride-sharing only represents around 1% of the miles driven in the United States. As more and more people reduce car usage and abandon car ownership — this number will most certainly go higher and higher.  
    One interesting thing to note about Uber’s 3 million driver-partners — they all “volunteered” to start driving with Uber. This articulation may sound unusual, but some detractors want you to believe that driving with Uber is equivalent to working in the steel mill in a small mid-western town, where it is the only opportunity for the individual. That is not the case — people are “choosing” to be driver-partners, and they are doing so in record numbers. You have to ignore over 200 years of microeconomic research to be able to contort your brain into believing that all of these people are voluntarily making poor life decisions for themselves.  
    In all the discussion about why independent work is different than a traditional full time occupation, all of the focus has been on the features and benefits that are absent relative to the historic and perhaps idyllic notion of “work type.” What is missing from the conversation is why this job type is so special and unique to so many millions of people. There is simply no way for the vast majority of employers in the world to offer a completely independent and autonomous work-schedule. They are unlikely to enable “instant payment” either. Yet these are the EXACT same features that show up over and over again in the research as to why people chose independent work in the first place. Independent work is undisputedly “different” from a traditional job type — which is exactly why it is so valuable to so many people.  
    Driving with Uber reverses the way we have been trained to think about labor. Instead of making labor conform to management’s notion of a ‘job,’ Uber hands control to the worker. You do not have to make your life fit the needs of your job; you can make the job fit the needs of your life. Just how revolutionary this notion is has not, in my opinion, been adequately understood.  
    Comments are closed.  
    Copyright 2018 Bill Gurley. All rights reserved.  
    
  URL : http://abovethecrowd.com/2018/04/19/the-thing-i-love-most-about-uber/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website