  

  
    There’s this great post by John Allspaw called “On being a senior engineer”. I originally read it
4ish years ago when I started my current job and it really influenced how I thought about the
direction I wanted to go in.  
    Rereading it 4 years later, one thing that’s really interesting to me about that blog post is that
it’s explaining that empathy / helping your team succeed is an important part of being a senior
engineer. Which of course is true!  
    But from where I stand today, most (all?) of the senior engineers I know take on a significant
amount of helping-other-people work in addition to their individual programming work. The challenge
I see me/my coworkers struggling with today isn’t so much “what?? I have to TALK TO PEOPLE??
UNBELIEVABLE.” and more “wait, how do I balance all of this leadership work with my individual
contributions / programming work in a way that’s sustainable for me? How much of what kind of work
should I be doing?“. So instead of talking about the attributes that a senior engineer has from
Allspaw’s post (which I totally agree with), instead I want to talk here about the work that a
senior engineer does.  
    “what a senior engineer does” is a huge topic and this is a small post. things to keep in mind
when reading:  
    These are things that I view as being mostly a senior engineer’s job and less a manager’s job.
(though managers definitely do some of this too, especially creating new projects / relating
projects to business priorities)  
    The thing that holds all this together is that almost all of this work is fundamentally
technical: helping someone get unstuck on a tricky project is obviously a human interaction, but
the issues we’ll be working on together will generally be computer issues! (“maybe if we simplify
this design we can be done with this way sooner!“)  
    I put “write code” first because I find it surprisingly easy to accidentally let that take a back
seat :)  
    One thing I left out is “make estimates”. Making estimates is something I’m still not very good at
and that I don’t think I see very much of (?), but I think it could be worth spending more time on
some day.  
    This list feels like a lot and like if you tried to do all those things all the time it would
consume all available brain space. I think in general it probably makes sense to carve out a subset
and decide “right now I’m going to focus on X Y Z, I think my brain will explode if I try to do A B
C as well”.  
    This section is a bit tricky. I’m not saying that these aren’t a senior engineer’s job in the sense
of “I won’t help create a good work environment on my team, how dare you suggest that’s part of my
job!!“. Most senior engineers I know have spent a huge amount of time thinking about these issues
and work on them quite a bit.  
    The reason I think it’s useful to create a boundary here is that everyone I work with has a really
strong sense of ownership/responsibility to the team / company (“does it need to be done? well,
sure, I can do that!!“) and I think it’s easy for that willingness to do whatever needs to happen to
turn into folks getting overwhelmed/overworked/unable to make the kinds of technical contributions
that are actually their core job. So if you can create some boundaries around your role it’s easier
to decide what sorts of work to ask for help with when things are hectic. The actual boundary you
draw course depends on you / your team :)  
    Most of these are a manager’s job. Caveats: managers do a lot more than the things listed here (for
instance “create new projects”), and at some companies some of these things might actually be the
job of a senior engineer (eg sprint management).  
    I ran into an interesting situation recently where I was talking to a manager about which things
were and weren’t part of my job as an engineer, and we realized that we had very different
expectations! We talked about it and I think it’s sorted out now, but it made me realize that it’s
very important to agree about what the expectations are :)  
    When I started out as an engineer, my job was pretty straightforward – I wrote code, tried to come
up with projects that made sense, and that was fine. My manager always had a clear sense of what my
job was and it wasn’t too complicated. Now that’s less true! So now I view it as being more my
responsibility to define a job that:  
    And the exact shape of that job will be different for different people (not everyone has the same
interests & strengths, for example I am actually not amazing at code review yet!), which I think
makes it even more important to negotiate it / do expectation setting.  
    I think pushing back if I’m asked to do work that I can’t do or that I think will make me unhappy
long term is important! I find it kind of tempting to agree to take on a lot of work that I know I
don’t really enjoy (“oh, it’s good for the team!”, “well someone needs to do it!“). But, while I
obviously sometimes take on tasks just because they need to be done, I think it’s actually really
important for team health for folks to be overall doing jobs that are sustainable for them and that
they overall enjoy.  
    So I’ll take on small tasks that just need to get done, but I think it’s important for me not to say
“oh sure, I’ll spend a large fraction of my time doing this thing that I’m bad at and that I
dislike, no problem” :). And if “someone” needs to do it, maybe that just means we need to
hire/train someone new to fill the gap :)  
    While I feel like I’m starting to understand what this “senior engineer” thing is all about (7 years
into my career so far), I still feel like I have a LOT to learn about it and I’d be interested to
hear how other people define the boundaries of their job!  
    
Some possible career goals
  
    
You might also like the Recurse Center, my very favorite programming community (my posts about it)  
    
  URL : https://jvns.ca/blog/senior-engineer/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website