     
    10 years ago, a link was posted on Hacker News to a new software project called Redis. In the comments, its creator Salvatore Sanfilippo (a.k.a. antirez) says “one of the major points of Redis is to support more complex types as values”. From Day 1, Salvatore knew what he wanted to build. And to his credit, he stayed focused. Redis now has 10 complex types and a module system that enables developers to build more. And as a result, Redis is the most popular key-value store on the planet.   
    But Salvatore could not have done this alone. Someone had to be the first to share the link, and someone had to be the first to try the software. That first post was shared by David Welton (a.k.a. davidw). I have no idea if he tried the software, or just thought it seemed cool, but he took a risk and shared it on Hacker News.  
    Only five people commented on that first post: three promoted alternative data stores; one suggested Salvatore re-write Redis in Erlang; and one, JUST ONE, offered some help. That one person turned out to be Ezra Zygmuntowicz (a.k.a. ezmobius, RIP), a very popular Ruby on Rails (RoR) developer and one of the founders of Engine Yard.  
    Ezra not only encouraged Salvatore, but implemented the first Ruby client library for Redis. Then he tweeted about it, which spread the word to the Rails community  At the time, RoR was helping developers create beautiful websites, but users of the framework struggled to make it scale. Thanks to Ezra’s efforts, Redis spread among RoR developers, and helped thousands of RoR websites scale. One of those websites was Twitter. Eventually, Redis went on to be a wildly popular add-on for Heroku developers, and then many, many others.   
    There were others after David and Ezra. But, as Derek Sivers says, “It takes guts to be a first follower. You stand out, you brave ridiculing yourself. Being a first follower is an underappreciated form of leadership”. Nine years ago, Salvatore said “Your early adopters are not brave because they are irresponsible, just they can evaluate something without the need to follow the mass”. So thanks to Salvatore, David and Ezra, and other early risk takers, an open source community called Redis was born. And to those first adopters of the Redis community, as we turn 10 years old today, we say thank you.  
      
    First Follower by Derek Silvers  
    Want to meet the Redis community and see what all the fuss is about? Join us as we celebrate 10 years of Redis at RedisConf, the yearly gathering of Redis developers, implementers and other community members. This year it takes place April 2-3 on Pier 27 in San Francisco. Perhaps you’ll find something new that will inspire you to take a risk.   
    February 26, 2019  
    Tags: First Follower, Hacker News, Redis, RedisConf, Salvatore  
    February 21, 2019  
    Moving from Apache2 modified with Commons Clause to Redis Source Available License (RSAL) Background Early in August 2018, Redis Labs was one of the first open source companies to realize that the current open source licensing scheme falls short when it comes to use by cloud providers. We wanted to make sure open source companies… Read more »  
    February 13, 2019  
    The data landscape has grown increasingly demanding and crowded in the last few years, with many platforms competing to offer the best processing and storage options. Tech consumers expect companies to deliver high-speed data processing while simultaneously offering a variety of adaptable solutions that work with traditional applications but also built for modern architecture like… Read more »  
    Terms  |  Privacy  |  redis.io  
    
© 2019 Redis Labs
  
    Updated Privacy Policy: By continuing to use this site, you consent to our updated privacy agreement as described here. You can change your cookie settings at any time as described here but parts of our site will not function correctly without them.  
    By continuing to use this site, you consent to our updated privacy agreement as described here. You can change your cookie settings at any time as described here but parts of our site will not function correctly without them.  
    Congratulations. You are eligible for a free conference pass.  
    Offer expires in 10 minutes. Redeem now!  
    
  URL : https://redislabs.com/blog/redis-turns-10/?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website