  One of the things I have always struggled with as a PM leader is the constant flow of ideas coming my way. And how to make people feel their ideas are valued even though we can only act on some subset of them. The reality is that ideas are not the hard part of innovation and neither is execution (the sentence that typically follows that statement). It’s deciding which ideas, in what incarnation, and in what order that’s hard. This role that we PMs have — the role of “idea sorter” is incredibly important, undervalued, and hard to do. I’ve come to believe that it’s actually a bad idea (heh) to ask people to submit their ideas. Instead we should ask them to submit problems and hypotheses.  
    Let’s back up for a minute and talk about the definition of “innovation”. I noticed, when putting together a talk on the topic for my PM team a couple years back, that I had never really thought much about that word. Instead taking for granted that I knew what it was. Here is what I found.  
    I don’t think I need to elaborate on new or valuable, that’s the part everyone “knows”. But let’s talk about the other two for a minute.  
    One thing I think many people forget is that for something to be considered “innovative” it has to be actually done. That’s what makes it an “innovation” instead of an “idea”. I would argue this means that “innovative idea” is not a valid pairing of words. A “potentially innovative idea” would be more accurate. Requiring implementation of course also means it needs to be feasible (human teleportation is an idea, but not yet close to an innovation). Being at the edge of what is currently technologically feasible could make it uniquely innovative. But that’s not necessarily the case. It might also just make it a harder way to solve a problem that has an easier, more elegant solution.  
    This one is somewhat arguable, especially in the context of software products. There are certainly products that fail only because of a lack of awareness and are therefore not adopted. But I think it’s fairly rare. And innovation occurs everywhere, not just products. If you invent a cool new way to track sprint burn-downs, but your team doesn’t adopt it, is it really an innovation? For adoption to occur:  
    Products and features fail at all of these points (FWIW, in my experience, most of them fail at number 1 or 3). And wherever they fail, the ideas in question could still very much look like “good” ideas. Especially to the people who submitted them to you.  
    Hopefully, you can see how much harder it is to achieve this definition of innovation than it is to simply have a new idea that you think will be valuable. And therefore how much rigor you should apply to deciding what to do (to “idea sorting”) in order to achieve innovative outcomes with any regularity.  
    When an idea comes across your desk, it’s usually presented simply as an idea. But how did the idea come about? Let’s first look at the “ideal” way:  
    Now let’s look at some of the other “non-ideal” ways…  
    I am not judging those other ways to be “wrong”. There could very well be great ideas in there that should get implemented. But to figure that out, you need to back up and go forward again. That is, back up to step 2 of the “ideal” process. Identify the hypothesis/problem being dealt with by this idea, then validate the hypothesis and brainstorm solutions. The original idea being just one possible solution to the (hopefully) validated hypothesis. This feels like a waste of time to the originator of the idea, to whom it is clear that the idea is worthy of implementation. But if you do go through these steps, the odds of the idea that started the conversation getting shipped is fairly small. Hence the dilemma of the idea sorter. Nobody said this job was easy.  
    So what if, instead of asking people to submit their ideas, we ask them to submit their problem statements or hypotheses. If they want to include a possible solution, they can do that too. But they can’t submit an idea without describing the problem or the hypothesis behind it. How might this change the tenor of the conversation with PM? How might this get people on the same page with what we are delivering? How might this increase the amount of actual innovation we deliver? Food for thought.  
    Innovating | Helping others innovate | Doing what I can to deliver humane, connected technology | www.secondnatureinnovation.com  
    We're the world's largest free Product Management community. 250,000+ readers. 2,000+ articles. 300+ writers. 3,000+ Slack members. Advert free. Sponsor free. Funded by passion, created and run by Jay Stansell  
    
  URL : https://productcoalition.com/ask-people-for-problems-not-ideas-3cc2a09b888a?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website