  You have a cool idea, and you don’t think “there is an app for that” yet. The path is clear, right? Build an iOS app, because the VC you are pitching has one in their pocket, and you want high ARPU customers.  
    When we were in the early gold rush years of mobile, this may have been the best path. There were a few things in your favor:  
    Today, the opportunity to have impact is still very much there, and the world continues to keep jumping online, so the user base for your experience may still be growing, but the landscape has new challenges.  
    What if there is another way? Progressive Web-First Apps.  
    Why would it ever make sense to start with a PWA experience for your new idea?  
    Progressive enhancement doesn’t even have to stop on the Web. If you prove things out and get to the point where you need to reach for native applications, you can! The beauty of doing things this way around though, is that you always have a funnel of new people who can access your service no matter what they are on, and for some customers they can go native if that is what they and you need.  
    But, starting a native app from scratch at that point sounds like a lot of work doesn’t it? You have options here too. Basecamp developers in a way that lets you bring your web investment along with you:  
    This strategy gives you control when you need to truly go native, and not waste time and effort when it isn’t needed. The features that are still in Web land continue to benefit from A/B testing and releases outside of the store. Not too shabby!  
    There are many other ways that you can play a similar game. For example, Ionic’s latest products are a great example of leaning into the Web. Stencil allows you to future proof yourself with Web Components all the way down, giving you a fast path on the Web, but you can take that to the native land with the backing of years of plugins.  
    But, let’s say you didn’t start this way, and you have ignored the potential broad Web users for your product, you are probably blind to the impact falling onto the floor.  
    Don’t worry, it’s not too late. In fact, there is no better example of turning this around than Pinterest.  
    We often hear about a new launch, but how did things really play out? Zack Argyle shares his one year retrospective.  
    The results stunned me:  
    Those numbers are not only impressive, they once again show the synergy with the native apps, bringing in users who may end up being happy in the web experience (including those who add to home screen) or may end up with a native app. Either way, happy customers!  
    If you think about it, Pinterest is a great use case for this. It’s the type of experience that is on the board of content and commerce. You want to share this around, and for those who catch the URLs to join in, even if they aren’t members.  
    Just like Henrik, I hope we see much more of this trend. I want new ideas to spring up on the web, reaching users all over the world and giving you as much of a chance as possible to click with an audience. I am reminded of a friend, who built a learning platform that spiked in traffic. It turned out that the spike was because the Philippines ministry of education had decided to go all in on his software. He found his viability through the global reach of the Web.  
    And, I want existing companies to realize the low hanging fruit that is: making their website modern. On the one hand you can invision new features for your existing users, but on the other you can bring a new seamless funnel that will capture many new users from the Web.  
    So, crack open Lighthouse. Time for you to be the next Pinterest!  
    From a quick cheer to a standing ovation, clap to show how much you enjoyed this story.  
    Google Developers; Karaoke Ready  
    now: Google, formerly: Walmart Labs, Set Direction, Ajaxians, webOSians, Mozillans, and more.  
    
  URL : https://medium.com/ben-and-dion/progressive-web-first-apps-6e35b35f073f?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website